NCT01787669|Trial of Switching Between Intravitreal Bevacizumab (Avastin®)& Intravitreal Dexamethasone (Ozurdex™) for Persistent Diabetic Macular Oedema|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Eyes Previously Treated with bevacizumab:

          1. Diabetic macular oedema affecting the fovea that has persisted despite ongoing,
             monthly intravitreal injections of bevacizumab over at least 6 months, the last being
             2 to 3 months prior to the screening visit.

          2. There must be an historical OCT available from 1-4 weeks after the last bevacizumab
             injection with retinal thickness > 300 microns in the central 1mm subfield on
             Spectral domain OCT to show the lack of complete response to bevacizumab.

          3. At screening, the bevacizumab treated eye must have DMO with retinal thickness > 300
             microns in the central 1mm subfield on Spectral domain OCT

             Eyes Previously Treated with dexamethasone:

          4. Diabetic macular oedema affecting the fovea that has persisted despite two
             dexamethasone implants 5 or fewer months apart, the last being 5-8 months prior to
             the screening visit.

          5. There must be an historical OCT available from 8-14 weeks after the last
             dexamethasone implant with retinal thickness > 300 microns in the central 1mm
             subfield on Spectral domain OCT to show the lack of complete response to the
             dexamethasone implant.

          6. At screening, the dexamethasone treated eye must have DMO with retinal thickness >
             300 microns in central 1mm subfield on Spectral domain OCT

          7. Age >= 18 years

          8. Diagnosis of diabetes mellitus

          9. Best corrected visual acuity of 20-78 letters (approx 6/120 -6/7.5)

         10. Previous macular laser treatment, or the investigator believes laser treatment is
             unlikely to be helpful

         11. Intraocular pressure <22mmHg

         12. Women of childbearing potential must have a negative urine pregnancy test at the
             screening visit and prior to treatment. A woman is considered of childbearing
             potential unless she is postmenopausal and without menses for 12 months or is
             surgically sterilised

         13. Written informed consent has been obtained.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Treatment with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) within the last 6 months
             or peribulbar TA within the last 3 months, or anti vascular endothelial growth factor
             (VEGF) drugs: ranibizumab and aflibercept, within the last 2 months.

          -  Cataract surgery within the last 3 months

          -  Retinal laser treatment within the last 3 months

          -  For eyes to be switched to Dexamethasone: Patient considered, at the judgement of the
             investigator, to be at-risk for syphilis, tuberculosis or other potentially infective
             chorioretinopathies. Patients considered at-risk may be assessed at the investigators
             discretion to reasonably exclude these conditions. Should these conditions be
             excluded, the patient may be considered for enrolment.
      
NCT01786564|Home Sleep and Circadian Phase: Mediators of Diabetes Risk|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Ages 21-50 years

          2. BMI <40 kg/m2.

          3. No major illness.

          4. No history of psychiatric, endocrine, cardiac or sleep disorders,

          5. Premenopausal, non-pregnant women.

          6. Those with dyslipidemia and hypertension will be included if these conditions are
             controlled by a stable treatment, such as lipid-lowering or antihypertensive
             medications (except beta blockers).

        Exclusion criteria include:

          1. Persons with diabetes.

          2. Persons with diagnosed sleep disorders or apnea-hypopnea index>15.

          3. History of cardiovascular event or disease (excluding controlled hypertension).

          4. Major psychiatric disorder or other major illness.

          5. Persons taking medications, including but not limited to antidepressants and
             hypnotics (but excluding lipid-lowering drugs and anti-hypertensive medications as
             mentioned above).

          6. Persons regularly taking medication that affects melatonin such as beta blockers and
             exogenous melatonin.

          7. Anyone who tests positive for common drugs of abuse.

          8. People with color blindness.

          9. People who have had Lasik eye surgery.

         10. People who work night shifts.

         11. Participants who travel across multiple time zones will be studied only after they
             have remained in the Central Time Zone (or Indiana) for one month prior to the study.
      
NCT01774058|The Arterial Measurement of the Blood Flow Volume After Iloprost Stimulation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patients with diabetes and non diabetes

          -  patients with peripheral artery occlusive disease and who undergo surgical treatment
             in distal vessels

          -  spinal anesthesia

          -  written consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  pregnancy

          -  heart attack the last 6 months

          -  stroke the last 6 months

          -  hypotension

          -  edema of the lungs

          -  heart failure

          -  heart disease

          -  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

          -  ulcus ventriculi

          -  renal disease

          -  coronary disease

          -  immaturity

          -  general anesthesia
      
NCT01755273|Effect of More Distal Enteral Bypass After Pancreaticoduodenectomy: A Prospective Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  DM

          -  Patients with impaired fasting glucose before operation

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes

          -  History of pancreatitis

          -  Hepatic dysfunction (Child-Pugh > 2)

          -  Renal dysfunction (serum creatinine concentration > 3 mg/L, hemodialysis, or both)

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Malnutrition (pre-operative BMI <20)
      
NCT01753921|Evaluation of a Non-invasive Brain Compliance Measurement Device|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        To be eligible for the study, all subjects must meet the following criteria:

          1. Healthy control OR

          2. Clinical new onset or established diagnosis of diabetes with diabetes ketoacidosis as
             defined by the Pediatric Endocrine Society Consensus Statement guidelines

          3. Age 10 years to less than 17 years

          4. Parent/guardian understand the study protocol and agrees to comply with it.

          5. Primary care giver (i.e parent/guardian) comprehends written English. This is due to
             the fact that questionnaires and neurocognitive testing tools used as outcome
             measures do not have validated versions in Spanish or other language. Subject
             comprehends and speaks English.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Subjects who meet any of the following criteria are not eligible for the study:

          1. History of head trauma with any loss of consciousness

          2. History of premature birth (less than 30 weeks of gestation)

          3. History of significant developmental delay (lack of single word speech or ability to
             walk independently by 18 months of age

          4. History of neurologic disease independent of diabetes (seizure disorder)
      
NCT01702051|Extending Indication for Islet Autotransplantation in Pancreatic Surgery|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  18 years of age

               -  ability to provide written informed consent

               -  fasting glycaemia <126 mg/dl without glucose-lowering medications.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Any medical condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, will interfere with
             the safe completion of the trial

          -  Diagnosis of intraductal papillary mucinous cancer, unless the absence of multifocal
             lesion is demonstrated by endoscopic US

          -  Presence of multifocal or residual disease at the pancreatic margin. If a malignat
             disease is the reason for the surgery, 1 cm of the pancreatic remnant in proximity to
             the pancreatic margin will be resected and sent for immediate pathologic analysis to
             confirm margin negativity and to rule out multifocal tumor
      
NCT01690208|Evaluation of Morbidities, Endpoints and Reaching Targets in Diabetic Patients Managed by a Diabetes Specialist Team|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Obese type 2 diabetic patients: body mass index (BMI) >27 kg/m2 and/or waist
             circumference (WC) >80cm in women and >90cm in men and HbA1c >8% aged 18-70 years

          -  Young type 2 diabetic patients: age 35-55 years and HbA1c >8%

          -  Diabetic patients with established cardiovascular-renal complications: HbA1c >8% and
             known cardiovascular and renal complications with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage
             3-4 (i.e. estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 to >15 ml/min/ per 1.73m2) aged
             18-70 years.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes

          -  Active malignant disease (Patients with malignant disease who have been disease-free
             for at least 5 years are eligible)

          -  Life expectancy less than 12 months

          -  Any medical illness or condition as judged by the investigators as ineligible to
             participate the study.
      
NCT01679210|Study of a Postpartum Diabetes Prevention Program for Hispanic Women|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Hispanic women with one or more glucose values during the diagnostic test meeting or
             exceeding the thresholds defined according to the American Diabetes Association

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  history of type 1 or type 2 diabetes, heart disease, or chronic renal disease

          -  contraindications to postpartum participation in moderate physical activity or a
             low-fat/high-fiber diet (e.g., Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis)

          -  inability to read English or Spanish at a 6th grade level

          -  <18 or >45 yrs of age

          -  women carrying multiples
      
NCT01663298|Gene Expression Variation and Implant Wound Healing Among Smokers and Diabetics|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adult males or females between the age of 18 and 70 years (inclusive)

          -  Able and willing to follow study procedures and instructions

          -  Have read, understood and signed an informed consent form

          -  In good general health

          -  Have one or more implant placements as their future treatment needs. The implant
             placement can be either as one-stage or two-stage, and can be either in an edentulous
             ridge or an extraction socket

          -  Qualify for enrollment into one of the three study groups

          -  Have probing depth ≤ 4 mm for all teeth at the same quadrant of implant placement.
             Sites with probing depth 5 mm will also be included if bleeding on probing in these
             sites are absent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Have a chronic disease with oral manifestations

          -  Exhibit gross oral pathology

          -  Use of either antibiotics or NSAIDs within 1 month prior to screening examination

          -  Chronic treatment (i.e. two weeks or more) with any medication known to affect
             periodontal status (e.g. phenytoin, calcium, antagonists, cyclosporin, Coumadin)
             within 1 month prior to screening examination

          -  Systemic conditions, except smoking and diabetes, that are known to affect the
             periodontal status

          -  With active infectious diseases such as hepatitis, HIV or tuberculosis

          -  Known to be pregnant or breastfeeding
      
NCT01633021|Developing the Family Map: Looking at Communal Coping|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Aged 18 years or older

          -  Ability to complete in-person, web-based or telephone survey/interview(s)

          -  Ability to read English or Spanish (in some cases)

          -  Affected by or have at least one first- or second-degree relative affected by or have
             a spouse/partner affected by the disease(s) of interest OR Biological or
             non-biological (e.g. adopted or step) relative of the primary participant or
             spouse/partner of the primary participant or biological relative of primary
             participant.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Individuals with cognitive difficulties will be excluded from the study, as participants
        will be required to comprehend and legally consent to participation in this study and
        complete the survey/interview(s).
      
NCT01546766|Rapid, Non-invasive, Regional Functional Imaging of the Retina. (Diabetic Retinopathy Diagnosis Device)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All subjects: must be greater than 18 years of age and capable of understanding
             informed consent.

          -  All subjects must be willing to tolerate the placement of a set of goggles on their
             face.

          -  All subjects must have visual acuities of 20/60 or better in at least one eye.

          -  Normal subjects must have a history of a normal eye examination within one year prior
             to participation in this study.

          -  Normal subjects must have no history of ocular disease and no history of diabetes.

          -  Diabetic subjects must be diagnosed with diabetes upon prior clinical examination.

          -  Retinal Conditions subjects must be diagnosed with a retinal pathology, hereditary or
             acquired.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects with glaucoma and high myopia are specifically excluded.

          -  Diabetic subjects may not have had laser (panretinal photocoagulation) in both eyes.
      
NCT01546181|Retinal Imaging by Adaptive Optics in Healthy Eyes and During Retinal and General Diseases|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  over 10 years old

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  ocular media opacities, unstable fixation
      
NCT01545492|Testing the Developmental Origins Hypothesis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All women participating in CHIPS and their children born after recruitment.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Women who have experienced the loss of their pregnancy or child after recruitment
             into CHIPS.
      
NCT01501201|Comparison of Gastric By-Pass and Optimized Medical Treatment in Obese Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes mellitus with HbA1c > 7.5 %

          -  Body mass index > 35 and < 50 kg/m2

          -  Candidate for Gastric By-Pass

          -  Treatment with GLP1 (glucagon-like peptide) analogue or insulin

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Contraindication to bariatric surgery

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Affiliation of health care assurance

          -  Psychiatric disorders
      
NCT01498276|Family Genetics Health Education and Healthy Behaviors|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        FHP Evaluation Phase

        Eligible participants for the FHP Evaluation Phase will be invited to participate in the
        study if they meet the following criteria:

          1. have at least one child

          2. be able to read and speak English

          3. indicate a willingness to participate in a focus group.

        FHeP Individual Evaluation Phase

        Individual Evaluation

        Eligible participants will be invited to participate in the study if they meet the
        following criteria:

          1. able to read, write, and speak English

          2. able to visit the Clinical Center on the Bethesda, MD main campus for one visit

          3. adult

          4. demonstrate basic computer literacy

        NHGRI employees and those who are adopted will be excluded from the study.

        Family Evaluation

        Eligible participants will be invited to participate in the study if they meet the
        following criteria:

          1. able to read, write, and speak English,

          2. adult,

          3. demonstrate basic computer literacy, and

          4. willing to invite at least 2 biological family members to participate.

        Those who are adopted will be excluded from the study.
      
NCT01369069|Stroke Hyperglycemia Insulin Network Effort (SHINE) Trial|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age 18 years or older

          2. Clinical diagnosis of ischemic stroke defined as acute neurological deficit occurring
             in one or more cerebral vascular territories. Neuroimaging must be done to exclude
             intracranial hemorrhage (ICH).

          3. Protocol treatment must begin within 12 hours after stroke symptom onset and is
             recommended, but not required, to begin within 3 hours after hospital arrival. If
             time of symptom onset is unclear or patient is awakening with stroke symptoms, the
             time of onset will be the time the patient was last known to be normal.

          4. Known history of type 2 diabetes mellitus and glucose >110 mg/dL OR admission blood
             glucose ≥150 mg/dL in those w/o known diabetes mellitus

          5. Baseline NIHSS score of 3-22

          6. Pre-stroke modified Rankin Scale score = 0 for patients with an NIHSS score of 3-7.
             Pre-stroke modified Rankin Scale score = 0 or 1 for patients with an NIHSS score of
             8-22.

          7. Able to provide a valid informed consent to be in the study (self or their authorized
             legally accepted representative). The approved consent form must be signed and dated
             in accordance with federal and institutional guidelines.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Known history of type 1 diabetes mellitus

          2. Substantial pre-existing neurological or psychiatric illness that would confound the
             neurological assessment or other outcome assessment

          3. Having received experimental therapy for the enrollment stroke. IV tPA (up to 4.5
             hrs) or IA tPA are allowed as are IA therapies including use of FDA cleared devices.
             Non FDA cleared devices are considered experimental and are excluded.

          4. Pregnant or breast-feeding at the time of study entry

          5. Other serious conditions that make the patient unlikely to survive 90 days

          6. Inability to follow the protocol or return for the 90 day follow up

          7. Renal dialysis (including hemo or peritoneal dialysis)
      
NCT01301521|Cinnamon Trial-lIfestyle iNtervention Plus Water-soluble Cinnamon Extract On loweriNg Blood Glucose in Pre-diabetics|
        THIS STUDY IS BEING CONDUCTED AT A MILITARY INSTALLATION. YOU MUST HAVE MILITARY INSURANCE
        IN ORDER TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS STUDY.

        Inclusion:

        Patients will be MOFMC, WHASC, DGMC, Eglin, and Offutt DoD beneficiaries, ages 18-65
        years.

        Diagnosis of pre-diabetes (defined as a fasting plasma glucose (FPG) 100-125mg/dl,
        Hemoglobin A1c 5.7-6.4%, or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) 140-199).

        Exclusion:

        Patients who are less than 18 yrs of age or greater than 65 years of age.

        Patients who are known to have or develop during the study any of the following upon
        review of their medical record:

          -  Diabetes Mellitus (defined as fasting plasma glucose (FPG) greater than 126mg/dl,
             hemoglobin A1C greater than 6.5%, or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)
             greater than 200mg/dl)

          -  Stage 3 kidney disease or worse

          -  Renal insufficiency defined as a glomerular filtration rate (gfr) of less than 60ml

          -  Celiac disease

          -  Insulinoma

          -  Cushing's disease

          -  Hyperthyroidism

          -  Acromegaly

          -  Pheochromocytoma

          -  Addison's disease

          -  Galactosemia

          -  Glycogen storage disease

          -  Hereditary fructose intolerance

        Patients taking any of the following:

          -  Cinnamon as a dietary supplement

          -  Daily oral steroids

          -  Warfarin

          -  Hypoglycemic medication

          -  Weight loss medication

          -  Digoxin, lithium, phenytoin, & theophylline (due to their narrow therapeutic indices)
             Patients who are pregnant or breast feeding Patients with a known allergy to cinnamon
             Patients with a known allergy to wheat
      
NCT01265537|A Pilot Study Comparing the Use of Low-target Versus Conventional Target Advagraf|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Male or female patients over 18 years of age who receive a deceased, living unrelated
             or living related donor renal transplant

          2. No history of pre-existing diabetes mellitus

          3. Not using diabetic medications (insulin, hypoglycemic agents) at the time of
             transplantation

          4. Random plasma glucose level <11.1 at the time of transplantation

          5. Peak PRA (panel reactive antibody) <10%

          6. Females capable of becoming pregnant must have a negative pregnancy test at baseline
             and are required to practice an approved method of birth control for the duration of
             the study and for a period of three months following discontinuation of study
             medication

          7. The patient has given written informed consent to participate in the study

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patients with primary non-function

          2. Peak PRA>=10%

          3. Multiple organ transplants

          4. HLA (human leukocyte antigen) identical living donor transplant recipients

          5. Cold ischemia time over 24 hours

          6. Nonheart beating donor kidney recipients

          7. Pediatric donor kidney recipients

          8. Donor age>=60 years

          9. Patients who are known to have a positive hepatitis C serology, who are human
             immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or Hepatitis B surface antigen positive. Laboratory
             results obtained within 6 months prior to study entry are acceptable. Recipients of
             organs from donors who test positive for Hepatitis B surface antigen or Hepatitis C
             will be excluded.

         10. Presence of any severe allergy requiring acute (within 4 weeks of baseline) or
             chronic treatment, or hypersensitivity to drugs similar to those used in the study

         11. Patients with systemic infections

         12. Existence of any surgical or medical condition, other than the current transplant,
             which in the opinion of the investigator, preclude enrollment in this trial

         13. Inability to cooperate or communicate with the investigator
      
NCT01107717|Durability of Combination Therapy With Exenatide/Pioglitazone/Metformin vs. Conventional Therapy in New Onset T2DM|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  subjects with type 2 diabetes diagnosed during the past 2 years,

          -  above 18 years of age,

          -  drug naive, or have been on metformin less than 3 months

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  subjects with type 1 diabetes or GAD positive subjects or subjects with long standing
             diabetes (>2 years) or subjects who are not drug naive or have been on metformin more
             than 3 months.
      
NCT01129297|A Biological Atlas of Severe Obesity (Biological Tissue Collection)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age between 18 and 65 years

          -  Indication of abdominal surgery requiring a laparotomy or laparoscopy for bariatric
             surgery, cholecystectomy, or parietal surgical

          -  Phenotype corresponding to one of the following four cases :

               1. Body Mass Index ≥ 35 kg/m2 and diabetes defined by a fasting blood glucose ≥ 7
                  mmol/l and/or ≥ to 11.1 mmol/l, 120 minutes after ingestion of glucose
                  (hyperglycemia caused by oral route)

               2. Body Mass Index ≥ 35 kg/m2 with intolerance glucose defined by a fasting blood
                  glucose> 6 mmol/L and <7 mmol/l and/or> 7.8 mmol/l and <11.1 mmol/l , 120
                  minutes after ingestion of glucose (hyperglycemia caused by oral route)

               3. Body Mass Index ≥ 35 kg/m2 without diabetes defined by a blood glucose ≤ 6
                  mmol/L and / or ≤ 7.8 mmol/l, 120 minutes after ingestion of glucose
                  (hyperglycemia caused by oral route)

               4. Body Mass Index <27 kg/m2 without diabetes defined by a blood glucose ≤ 6 mmol/L
                  and / or ≤ 7.8 mmol/l, 120 minutes after ingestion of glucose (hyperglycemia
                  caused by oral route)

        5)27 <Body Mass Index <35 kg/m2 without diabetes defined by a blood glucose ≤ 6 mmol/L and
        / or ≤ 7.8 mmol/l, 120 minutes after ingestion of glucose (hyperglycemia caused by oral
        route)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  unable to receive clear information

          -  refusal to sign the consent form

          -  pathology associated judged by the surgeon, may increase the risk of adverse events
             related to sampling tissue
      
NCT01100892|Cystic Fibrosis - Insulin Deficiency, Early Action|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with CF aged >=5 yrs attending one of the study sites.

          -  CFID1 or CFID2 (defined as BGmax >=8.2 and BG120 <11.1mmol/l on OGTT performed within
             the last 6 months, when respiratory function stable as judged by the treating
             respiratory team, not taking fluoroquinolone antibiotics, and not taking systemic
             glucocorticoids).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Cystic Fibrosis Related Diabetes, defined as CFID3 (BG120 >11.1mmol/L) or CFID4
             (fasting BG >7mmol/L). Such patients will be offered insulin treatment as standard
             clinical care.

          -  Unstable respiratory disease (hospital admission for treatment of respiratory
             exacerbation within the last month).

          -  Treatment with systemic glucocorticoids of more than 1 month duration, within the
             last 12 months.
      
NCT01002209|Postoperative Hyperbaric Oxygen Treatments to Reduce Complications in Diabetic Patients Undergoing Vascular Surgery|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients are eligible for inclusion if the following criteria are fulfilled

          -  Informed consent obtained

          -  Scheduled for lower extremity open vascular surgery

          -  Diabetes treated with insulin or oral antidiabetic medicine

          -  Age ≥ 18 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Contraindications to HBO therapy

          -  Pregnancy (women of childbearing potential will undergo pregnancy test before
             inclusion)

          -  Patients already in HBO treatment

          -  Vascular reoperation

          -  Creatinine > 250 mmol/L

          -  NYHA class IV heart failure or severe cardiopulmonary disease with desaturation
             judged to be incompatible with safe HBO/ placebo therapy in a monoplace chamber

          -  Clinically significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

          -  Acute sepsis.

          -  Malignancy or other serious medical condition where it is likely that the patient
             will significantly deteriorate or not survive within the two years of follow up.

          -  Simultaneous or previous (within 30 days prior to study entry participation in a
             clinical study using experimental drugs or devices.

          -  Mental condition making the subject unable to understand the concepts and risk of the
             study
      
NCT00921960|St. Vincent's Screening To Prevent Heart Failure Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  ≥40 Years of age

          -  with risk factors for LVD including:

               -  hypertension (medicated for ≥ 1 month)

               -  hypercholesterolemia

               -  obesity

               -  coronary artery disease (confirmed by angiography)

               -  diabetes mellitus

               -  arrhythmia

               -  valvular abnormalities

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  failure or unwilling to provide informed consent

          -  known ventricular dysfunction (confirmed by angiography or echocardiography)

          -  previous documented episode of heart failure
      
NCT00862433|Vitamin E Pharmacokinetics and Biomarkers in Normal and Obese Women|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects to be recruited for the study:

          -  Healthy women

          -  Ages 18 to 40 years old

          -  Able to give informed consent

          -  Blood pressure <160/90 mm Hg

          -  Nonobese (BMI less than or equal to 29.9) without diabetes

          -  Overweight (BMI greater than or equal to 27) without diabetes

          -  Overweight (BMI greater than or equal to 27) with mild to moderate non-insulin
             dependent diabetes (Type 2 diabetes)

               -  who are treated with diet alone or submaximal doses of oral hypoglycemic agents

               -  whose fasting blood sugar is < 200mg/dl or HbA1C < 7.5

               -  with no known target organ damage (End organ damage includes the following:
                  proliferative retinopathy, serum creatinine < 1.8 m/dl, ischemic heart disease,
                  congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease and peripheral neuropathy)

          -  No regular medication other than aspirin (other than oral hypoglycemic agents,
             hormonal contraceptives and medications taken only on an as-needed basis).

          -  Willingness to use effective contraceptive methods for the duration of the study

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects with the following diseases or abnormalities will not be eligible for the study:

          -  Digestive abnormalities, such as malabsorption or chronic diarrhea

          -  Organ malfunction, including (but not limited to) liver disease, pulmonary disease,
             ischemic heart disease, heart failure, stroke, peripheral vascular disease

          -  Hypertension (blood pressure >160/90)

          -  Anemia (hematocrit < 30)

          -  Current or history of serious or chronic illness, including hyperlipidemia or
             hypercholesterolemia

          -  Complications from diabetes such as kidney damage (renal insufficiency, serum
             creatinine >1.8), eye damage (proliferative retinopathy), diabetic neuropathy,
             coronary artery disease, or peripheral vascular disease

          -  Tobacco smoking

          -  Use of medications (other than oral hypoglycemic agents, hormonal contraceptives and
             medications taken only on an as-needed basis).

          -  Alcohol or drug abuse

          -  Insulin treatment

          -  Pregnancy or lactation (a urine pregnancy test will be performed on all women with
             reproductive age before each part of the study or monthly as necessary)

          -  Positive HIV or hepatitis (b or c) screening tests

          -  Food allergy, to soy or egg, milk protein (casein), or wheat/gluten

          -  Known coagulopathy

          -  Unwillingness to use effective contraceptive methods such as barrier methods for the
             duration of the study.

        Patients on antihypertensive medication are excluded even if blood pressure is well
        controlled because antihypertensive medication may affect vitamin E status, thus
        introducing a confounding variable. Whether antihypertensive medication interacts with
        vitamin E is not

        known. Patients on insulin treatment are excluded because Insulin treatment indicates a
        more severe form of diabetes than the mild to moderate type two diabetes that need only
        dietary treatment or treatment with submaximal doses of oral hypoglycemic agents for
        adequate blood sugar control. The effect of insulin administration on vitamin E is
        unknown, and is a confounding factor that will make data interpretation difficult.
      
NCT00837122|Genetics of Type 2 Diabetes in West Africans|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Cases Men and women with confirmed type 2 diabetes mellitus that are either on treatment
        for diabetes or newly diagnosed with blood sugar reading on more than one occasion
        exceeding or equal to 126 mg/dl. These persons must be above the age of 25 years. In this
        regard, all newly diagnosed participants will be required to visit the clinic on the
        following day to perform a fasting blood glucose test to confirm previous results.

        Controls Men and women with fasting plasma glucose (FPG) less than 100 mg/dl (5.6 mmol/l).
        Controls must be above age 25 years and should be ethnically matched to the cases.
        Enrolled cases and controls have to be unrelated. Therefore, only one person may be
        enrolled from each family unless they are husband and wife.

        Attempts will be made to enroll an equal number of men and women. To ensure that ethnic
        distribution is maintained in each study, we are proposing to enroll ethnically-matched
        participants relevant to each study.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        People who do not meet the above criteria (e.g., younger than 24, without the blood sugar
        requirements, etc). No more than one non-spouse member of each family. No prisoners,
        pregnant women or fetuses will be included in this study.
      
NCT00793884|Emory Latino Diabetes Education Program|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  spanish speaking patients with diabetes

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  under 18 years of age
      
NCT00777712|Mechanisms Underlying Impaired Diabetic Wound Healing|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Ages 21-80

          -  Chronic Wound (present >4 weeks)

          -  Diabetic & Non-diabetic

          -  Adult surgical wounds

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Inability to consent

          -  Pregnant women

          -  Therapeutically immunocompromised

          -  Individuals defined in 45 CFR 46 Subparts B,C, and D, nor from any other population
             considered vulnerable 2.9
      
NCT00622856|The Cost-efficacy of Psychological Intervention for Strengthening Parental Authority Among Parents of Diabetic Adolescents With Poor Glycemic Control|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Parents of adolescents between the ages of 10-18

          2. More than one year diabetes

          3. Adolescent's HbA1c>8

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Adolescents or parents of adolescents that are mentally retarded.

          2. Another chronic disease besides diabetes.

          3. Adolescents that are taking medications that might disturb their glycemic control.
      
NCT00476281|Nutritional, Metabolic and Respiratory Status in Cystic Fibrosis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patients 10 years and older with cystic fibrosis

          -  not known diabetics with fasting blood glucose <1.26 g / l

          -  outside periods of exacerbation and / or glucocorticoid therapy

          -  affiliated to a social security scheme

          -  having received the results of the mandatory medical examination

          -  having signed an informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patient transplanted lung and / or liver

          -  Subject during participation in an interventional clinical trial

          -  unable to give informed about the information

          -  patient under judicial protection

          -  patient under tutorship or curatorship

          -  pregnancy

          -  breastfeeding

          -  patient treated with the combination lumacaftor and ivacaftor
      
NCT00340132|Cross-Sectional and Longitudinal Studies of "Pre-Diabetes" in the Pima Indians|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Volunteers from all racial and ethnic backgrounds will be invited to participate if they
        are:

        Ages: 18 - 55 years old

        Gender: male or female.

          -  Each subject who volunteers will be assigned to the clinical research ward physician
             who made the initial contact and he/she will be responsible for completion of all
             tests (see below) and compilation of data. This physician will consult with the
             subject's personal physician or other health care personnel involved with the patient
             in Sacaton. This includes sending a carefully written discharge summary to
             appropriate health care workers at the time of discharge.

          -  All medications and alcohol consumption are to be stopped for two weeks prior to
             admission. A urine drug-screening test for drugs such as narcotics, marijuana, and
             barbiturates will be performed on everyone to exclude from the study people whose
             urine show active or recent drug use. A positive drug test could confound the results
             of the study in an unpredictable manner. The results of this test will become a part
             of the patient s medical records and may be released if requested (please see page 6
             of the consent for details regarding medical records release).

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Subjects will be excluded who are on chronic medications for problems such as seizure
        disorders.

        Exclusions for occasional medications will be at the discretion of the interviewing
        physician.

        Women who are currently breastfeeding will be excluded from the study.
      
NCT03136484|Efficacy and Safety of Semaglutide Versus Canagliflozin as add-on to Metformin in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Male or female, age equal to or above18 years at the time of signing informed consent

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D)

          -  HbA1c of 7.0-10.5% (53-91 mmol/mol, both inclusive)

          -  Stable daily dose of metformin (equal to or above1500 mg or maximum tolerated dose as
             documented in the subject medical record and in compliance with current local label)
             for at least 90 days prior to the day of screening

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Known or suspected hypersensitivity to trial product(s) or related products

          -  Previous participation in this trial. Participation is defined as signed informed
             consent

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
             contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice)

          -  Participation in any clinical trial of an approved or non-approved investigational
             medicinal product within 90 days prior to the day of screening

          -  Any disorder which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety or
             compliance with the protocol

          -  Subject with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) above 2.5 x upper normal limit (UNL)

          -  Family or personal history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 or medullary
             thyroid carcinoma. Family is defined as a first degree relative

          -  History or presence of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA)

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, hospitalization for
             unstable angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the
             day of screening

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Renal impairment measured as eGFR below 60 ml/min/1.73 m^2 as defined by Kidney
             Disease Improving global outcomes (KDIGO 2012) classification using isotope dilution
             mass spectrometry (IDMS) for serum creatinine measured at screening

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria within the past 90 days prior to the day of
             screening. However, short term insulin treatment for a maximum of 14 days prior to
             the day of screening is allowed

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within the past 90 days prior to
             randomisation

          -  Presence or history of malignant neoplasms within the past 5 years prior to the day
             of screening. Basal and squamous cell skin cancer and any carcinoma in-situ is
             allowed

          -  Medical history of diabetes-related lower limb amputations or signs of critical lower
             limb ischemia, (e.g. skin ulcer, osteomyelitis, or gangrene) within the last 26 weeks
             prior to screening
      
NCT00001853|Diabetes and Heart Disease Risk in Blacks|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        Ethnicity: African Americans

        To enroll participants must self-identify as African Americans and be born in the United
        States, with American born parents or be born in Africa with African born parents. In the
        future, we plan to expand the study to include other groups which self-identify as African
        Americans (i.e. AfroCarribeans and Hispanic blacks).

        Age: The age range of the participants will be between 18 and 50 years.

        Medical History: To participate in the study subjects should identify themselves as
        healthy.

        Menstrual History: Women must give a history of regular monthly cycles (24-35 days) for at
        least one year.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        African American Ethnicity other than American or West African ancestry. In the future, we
        will expand the study to include other African American groups such as individuals of
        Afro-Caribbean and Hispanic blacks.

        Medications: People who take medications that are known to alter the parameters which are
        under investigation in this study will be excluded. An example would be medications used
        to treat hyperlipidemia such as statins, niacin, bile acid sequestrants and fibric acid
        derivatives. Subjects on thyroid hormone replacement will be included if their TSH is
        normal.

        Diabetes: Because diabetes affects insulin sensitivity and TG levels all people with
        diabetes even if the diabetes is controlled with diet alone will not be enrolled in the
        study.

        Breastfeeding: Women who are breastfeeding or have an infant that is less than four months
        of age will be excluded. This is because the physiologic changes associated with
        breastfeeding or recent childbirth affect the parameters under study.

        Menstrual History: Women with a history of irregular menstrual cycles in the year prior to
        the study will be excluded. Due to the requirement for regular menses, women in the
        following categories, regardless of age will be excluded: history of hysterectomy, history
        of bilateral oophorectomy, use of Norplant or Depo-Provera for contraception.

        History of bleeding diathesis
      
NCT01914146|Insulin Therapy and Falls Due to Orthostatic Hypotension|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All subjects must be 65 years of age or older

          -  All must have been diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes for at least 5 years

          -  All subjects must be insulin-naïve on recruitment

          -  All subjects must be eligible to start insulin therapy (long or intermediate acting)
             as determined by their diabetologist

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Anemia, as determined by serum hematocrit

          -  Abnormal liver function tests

          -  Elevated creatinine

          -  Smoker

          -  Musculoskeletal or neurological condition that would preclude tilt table testing or
             orthostatic vitals
      
NCT01904032|Sunshine 2 Study for Women With Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Women age 21 and older

          -  Objective evidence of depressive symptoms at the screening and baseline visits

          -  Diagnosis of type 2 diabetes currently being treated by a healthcare provider

          -  Blood vitamin D level less than 32 nanograms-per-deciliter (32 ng/dl)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current alcohol or substance use disorder

          -  Any unstable or severe psychiatric disease including diagnoses of schizophrenia,
             bipolar affective disorder, dementia, delirium, or other psychotic disorder

          -  Severe complications of diabetes, such as blindness and/or amputation

          -  Any malabsorption disorder, such as Crohn's disease and/or celiac sprue

          -  Elevated serum calcium level deemed significant by the Principal Investigator

          -  Use of 1,000 or more international units daily vitamin D 60 days before enrollment
             and unwillingness to discontinue vitamin D supplementation 30 days before enrollment.

          -  Use of St. John's Wort and unwillingness to discontinue St. John's Wort three weeks
             prior to enrollment.

          -  Participants who are pregnant, nursing, or planning to become pregnant during the
             study.

          -  Baseline systolic blood pressure (SBP) greater than 160 millimeters of mercury (mmHG)
             or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) greater than 100 mmHG.

          -  Other serious medical conditions (e.g., cancer, multiple sclerosis, etc.) deemed
             clinically significant by the Principal Investigator
      
NCT03187145|Ultrasound Evaluation of Gastric Emptying in Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetic and non-diabetic Patients scheduled for elective surgery aged 18 to 85years
             American Society of Anesthesia physical status classification I to III Body mass
             index < 40 kg/ cm2.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy (currently or within the past 3 months) Previous surgery of the upper
             gastrointestinal tract Achalasia
      
NCT01972113|Vitamin K and Glucose Metabolism in Children at Risk for Diabetes (Vita-K 'n' Kids Study)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 8 to 17 years

          -  BMI less than 85th percentile for age and gender

          -  Subject and parent/guardian understands the study protocol and agrees to comply with
             it

          -  Informed Consent Form signed by the parent/guardian and assent signed by the subject

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects using vitamin supplements containing vitamin k

          -  Subjects with (a history of) metabolic or gastrointestinal diseases including hepatic
             disorders

          -  Subjects presenting chronic degenerative and/or inflammatory diseases

          -  Subjects receiving systemic treatment or topical treatment likely to interfere with
             evaluation of the study parameters (salicylates, antibiotics)

          -  Subjects receiving corticosteroid treatment

          -  Subjects using oral anticoagulants

          -  Subjects with a history of soy allergy

          -  Subjects who have participated in a clinical study more recently than one month
             before the current study
      
NCT03203811|A Phase 1, Study to Evaluate HTI-2088 Tablet|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Healthy male or female between 18 and 55 years of age (inclusive), without diabetes
             FPG <126 mg/dL.

          2. Body mass index (BMI) of 19 to 30 kg/m2 (inclusive); and a total body weight ≥50 kg.

          3. Subjects who are willing and able to comply with scheduled visits, treatment plan,
             laboratory tests, and other study procedures.

          4. An informed consent document signed and dated by the subject.

          5. Male subjects must agree to utilize a highly effective method of contraception
             (condom with or without spermicide) during heterosexual intercourse or be
             non-heterosexually active, or practice sexual abstinence from first dose throughout
             the study period and for 90 days following IP dosing, and must agree to refrain from
             sperm donation from Day 0 until at least 90 days after the IP dose.

          6. Females must meet at least one of the following criteria:

               -  sexually inactive (abstinent) for at least 14 days prior to the first dose,
                  throughout the study and for 90 days after IP dose

               -  postmenopausal, defined by at least 12 consecutive months of amenorrhea without
                  an alternative medical cause

               -  using one of the following acceptable birth control methods: surgically sterile
                  (bilateral tubal ligation, hysterectomy, bilateral oophorectomy) at least 6
                  months prior to the first dose; intra-uterine device in place for at least 3
                  months prior to the first dose; barrier method (condom, diaphragm) with
                  spermicide for at least 14 days prior to the first dose, throughout the study
                  and for 90 days after IP dose; surgical sterilization of the partner (vasectomy
                  for at least 6 months prior to the first dose); hormonal contraception for at
                  least 3 months prior to the first dose, throughout the study and for 90 days
                  after IP dose.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Evidence or history of clinically significant hematological, renal, endocrine,
             pulmonary, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, hepatic, psychiatric, neurologic, or
             drug allergies. In particular, any history or evidence at Screening of chronic GI
             disorders (e.g., celiac sprue, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, etc.), thyroid
             disease, or pancreatitis, any condition possibly affecting drug absorption (e.g.,
             gastrectomy).

          2. History of gastrointestinal surgery within one year of the screening visit.

          3. Other severe acute or chronic medical or psychiatric condition or laboratory
             abnormality that could have increased the risk associated with study participation or
             investigational product administration or could have interfered with the
             interpretation of study results and, in the judgment of the investigator, made the
             subject inappropriate for entry into the study.

          4. Positive results of alcohol or substances of abuse at screening or upon admission to
             the clinical research unit.

          5. A positive pregnancy test at screening and upon admission to the clinical research
             unit, or subject is lactating, if the subject is female.

          6. History of regular alcohol consumption exceeding 14 drinks/week for females or 21
             drinks/week for males (1 drink = 5 ounce (150 mL) of wine or 12 ounces (360 mL) of
             beer or 1.5 ounces (45 mL) of hard liquor) within 6 months of Screening; Consumption
             of alcohol within 24 hours of receiving IP.

          7. Treatment with any investigational drug within 30 days or 5 half-lives preceding the
             first dose of IP.

          8. Have an abnormality in the 12-lead ECG that, in the opinion of the investigator,
             increases the risks associated with participating in the study.

          9. Blood donation of approximately 1 pint (approximately 473 mL) or more within 56 days,
             or plasma donation within 7 days of receiving IP.

         10. Use of prescription, nonprescription drugs, illicit drug use, and dietary supplements
             within 7 days or 5 half-lives (whichever is longer) prior to the first dose of IP.
             Herbal supplements and hormone replacement therapy should be discontinued 28 days
             prior to the first dose of IP.

         11. Evidence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ hepatitis C/ hepatitis B infection
             and/or positive human HIV/hepatitis C/hepatitis B antibodies (a negative test result
             within the 3 months prior to screening may be used instead of obtaining a screening
             laboratory sample for these laboratory tests)

         12. History of using GLP-1 analogs.

         13. Known sensitivity to any of the components of the investigational product formulation
             or SNAC

         14. Current smoker or user of any tobacco products.

         15. Consumption of any grapefruit or grapefruit-containing juices within 14 days of
             receiving the IP.

         16. Consumption of any caffeine- or xanthine-containing foods or beverages within 24
             hours of receiving IP.

         17. Have poor venous access and are unable to donate blood.

         18. In the opinion of the investigator or sponsor, are unsuitable for inclusion in the
             study.

         19. Subjects who are investigational site staff members or subjects who are Sponsor
             employees directly involved in the conduct of the study.
      
NCT03191396|Research Study Comparing a New Medicine Semaglutide to Liraglutide in People With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, age 18 years or older at the time of signing informed consent

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus

          -  HbA1c of 7.0-11.0 % (53 - 97 mmol/mol) (both inclusive)

          -  Stable daily dose(s) including any of the following anti-diabetic drug(s) or
             combination regimens 90 days prior to the day of screening: a) Biguanides (metformin
             above or equal to 1500 mg or maximum tolerated dose documented in the subject's
             medical record). b) Sulphonylureas (above or equal to half of the maximum approved
             dose according to local label or maximum tolerated dose as documented in subject
             medical record). c) SGLT-2 inhibitors (above or equal to half of the maximum approved
             dose according to local label or maximum tolerated dose as documented in subject
             medical record)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Family or personal history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 or medullary
             thyroid carcinoma. Family is defined as a first degree relative

          -  History or presence of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of diabetic ketoacidosis

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for unstable
             angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the day of
             screening

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Renal impairment measured as estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) value of
             below 30 ml/min/1.73 sqm as defined by KDIGO 2012 classification

          -  Impaired liver function, defined as ALT above or equal to 2.5 times upper normal
             limit at screening

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within the past 90 days prior to
             randomisation
      
NCT02145988|DLBS1033 Treatment in Diabetic With Peripheral Arterial Disease|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Signed informed consent before any trial related activities.

          -  Male or female subjects of 40 - 65 years of age.

          -  Diagnosis of diabetes mellitus defined as HbA1c level of ≥ 6.5% (for newly diagnosed
             diabetes) or based on medical history.

          -  Presence of peripheral arterial disease with resting ankle-brachial index (ABI) of
             0.41-0.90 inclusive

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Females of childbearing potential: pregnancy, breast-feeding, and the intention of
             becoming pregnant.

          -  Recent stroke attack, myocardial infarction/unstable angina/acute coronary syndrome,
             coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) or percutaneous transluminal coronary
             angioplasty (PTCA)/stent within 3 (three) months prior to screening.

          -  Impaired liver function: serum ALT > 2.5 times upper limit of normal.

          -  Impaired renal function: serum creatinine ≥ 1.5 times upper limit of normal.

          -  Concomitant use of other antithrombosis drugs or any antiplatelets other than the
             study medication.

          -  Subjects with concurrent herbal (alternative) medicines or food supplements

          -  Subjects with any other disease state, including chronic or acute systemic
             infections, uncontrolled illnesses or other chronic diseases, which judged by the
             investigator, could interfere with trial participation or trial evaluation.

          -  Subjects with high risk of bleeding:

          -  Subjects with prior experience with DLBS1033 or other oral lumbrokinase products.

          -  Subjects with known or suspected allergy to any of study medications used in the
             study, including other lumbrokinase products.

          -  Subjects with known or suspected allergy or resistant to aspirin.
      
NCT03172494|A Trial Comparing Insulin Degludec/Liraglutide, Insulin Degludec, and Liraglutide in Chinese Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Oral Antidiabetic Drugs (OADs)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Type 2 diabetes mellitus (clinically diagnosed)

          -  Male or female, age at least 18 years at the time of signing informed consent

          -  HbA1c 7.0-10.0 % (both inclusive) by central laboratory analysis, with the aim of a
             median of8.3%. When approximately 50% of the randomised subjects have an HbA1c above
             8.3%, the remaining subjects randomised must have an HbA1c below or equal to 8.3%; or
             when approximately 50% of the randomised subjects have an HbA1c below or equal to
             8.3%, the remaining subjects randomised must have an HbA1c above 8.3%

          -  Current treatment for at least 90 calendar days prior to screening with metformin
             plus/minus one other OAD: α-glucosidase inhibitors, sulphonylureas, glinides or
             thiazolidinediones. For above or equal to 60 calendar days prior to screening
             subjects should be on a stable dose of:

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and sulphonylureas (above
             or equal to half of the max approved dose according to local label) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and glinides (above or
             equal to half of the max approved dose according to local label) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and α-glucosidase
             inhibitors (above or equal to half of the max approved dose according to local label)
             or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and thiazolidinediones
             (above or equal to half of the max approved dose according to local label)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Treatment with insulin (except for short-term treatment at the discretion of the
             investigator)

          -  Treatment with glucagon-like-peptide-1 receptor agonists or dipeptidyl-peptidase-4
             inhibitors within 90 days prior to screening

          -  Impaired liver function, defined as alanine aminotransferase above or equal to 2.5
             times upper normal range

          -  Impaired renal function defined as serum-creatinine above or equal to 133 μmol/L for
             males and above or equal to 125 μmol/L for females, or as defined according to local
             contraindications for metformin

          -  Screening calcitonin above or equal to 50 ng/L

          -  Personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or multiple endocrine
             neoplasia type 2 (MEN2)

          -  Cardiac disorder defined as: congestive heart failure (NYHA class III-IV), diagnosis
             of unstable angina pectoris, cerebral stroke and/or myocardial infarction within the
             last 12 months prior to screening and/or planned coronary, carotid or peripheral
             artery revascularisation procedures

          -  Severe uncontrolled treated or untreated hypertension (systolic blood pressure above
             or equal to 180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure above or equal to 100 mmHg

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy (macular oedema), requiring acute treatment

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)
      
NCT03172260|Effect of E Balance Pro Therapy on Diabetes and Related Complications|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female adults > 18 years of age.

          -  HbA1c 7.0% to 11.0% (inclusive).

          -  Body mass index 40.0kg/m2 or less.

          -  Non-smoker, or ex-smoker ≥3 months.

          -  Female participants of childbearing potential [i.e. not surgically sterilized or
             post-menopausal (greater than one year since last menses)] must have negative urine
             pregnancy test and must be using an effective birth control method, defined as:

               -  Continuous use of oral or long acting injected contraceptive for at least 2
                  months prior to study entry, or

               -  Use of an intra-uterine device or implantable contraceptive, or

               -  Use of double barrier methods of birth control, or

               -  Abstinence from heterosexual intercourse.

          -  Currently on lifestyle management and/or standard treatment for diabetes.

          -  Currently under the care of a physician.

          -  Able and willing to perform self-monitoring of plasma glucose regularly.

          -  Willing to avoid alcohol consumption for 24 h prior to every clinic visit.

          -  Willing to maintain a stable body weight, activity level, and dietary pattern, except
             for use of the study products, as directed.

          -  Willing and able to provide informed written consent prior to any study procedures.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy or lactation, or participant unwilling to take appropriate contraceptives
             for the duration of the study

          -  History of significant cardiovascular or coronary heart disease (CVD or CHD) as
             defined by having had a coronary artery bypass procedure, coronary stent or
             angioplasty, or myocardial infarction in the past six (6) months.

          -  Current or recent (within six month of Visit 1) history of significant
             gastrointestinal, renal, pulmonary, hepatic or biliary disease, other endocrine
             diseases or invasive weight loss treatment.

          -  Subjects currently using pacemakers.

          -  History of epilepsy.

          -  Uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure SBP > 180 and/or DBP ≥ 105 mm Hg) and
             unstable use (i.e. initiation or change in dose) of antihypertensive medications or
             thyroid hormone replacement medications within 3 months prior to Visit 1.

          -  Plasma creatinine above 130µmol/L or ALT more than twice (2x) upper limit of normal.

          -  Use of anticoagulants such as (not exhaustive):warfarin (Coumadin), dabigatran
             (Pradaxa), apixaban (Eliquis) or rivaroxaban (Xarelto). NOTE: Anti-platelet agents
             such as Plavix are allowed.

          -  Use of prescription non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (or daily use of over the
             counter non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs >1month), steroids, corticosteroids, or
             any other prescription anti-inflammatory drugs within three (3) months prior to Visit
             1.

          -  Use of any weight-loss programs or weight-loss medications (prescription or over- the
             counter) including, but not limited to, lipase inhibitors, within three (3) months
             prior to Visit 1.

          -  History of cancer (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer and basal cell carcinoma) in
             the past five (5) years.

          -  Presence or history (past 6 months) of alcohol or drug abuse; alcohol use of >2
             standard alcoholic drinks per day (one drink= 12oz. beer, 4 oz. wine, 1.5 oz. hard
             liquor).

          -  Subject planning to undergo surgery during the study period or up to one (1) month
             after the study.

          -  Participant has a known allergy or intolerance to the test products or placebo.

          -  Participant is unwilling or unable to abide by the requirements of the protocol.

          -  Any condition that would interfere with the participant's ability to comply with
             study instructions, might confound the interpretation of the study, or put the
             participant at risk

          -  Participant has taken an investigational health product or has participated in a
             research study within 30 days prior to first study visit.
      
NCT03167996|Chronic Cardiovascular Risk Outpatient Management in South Asians Using Digital Health Technology|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  adult smartphone users

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subjects who do not own a smartphone or cannot access their mobile health data

          -  Patients unable to read English, as the initial version of the research app will be
             in English

          -  Participants who are children (under 18 years old)

          -  Participants who are pregnant women

          -  Participants who are economically and educationally disadvantaged, decisionally
             impaired, homeless people, or employees of Stanford University will be excluded due
             to being of a vulnerable population.

          -  Participants who express active chest pain or shortness of breath in their first
             clinic visit and are clinically deemed to require an emergency room evaluation will
             be excluded

          -  Participants who have inability or unwillingness to use or connect to data services
             for app messaging

          -  Participants with an upcoming surgical procedure (for instance, a clinic visit as
             part of preoperative evaluation) that will significantly impair or block their
             ability to follow the chronic disease management program during the study period

          -  Participants who have pre-existing participation in another clinical research
             protocol.
      
NCT03161327|Digital Ankle Brachial Index (ABI) as a Screening Tool in Detecting Peripheral Arterial Disease|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Answering yes to any of the following questions on the clinical screening questionnaire:

          -  Are you 65 years or older?

          -  Have you ever smoked?

          -  Do you have diabetes?

          -  Do you have high blood pressure or take medication for high blood pressure?

          -  Do you have high cholesterol, or take medication for high cholesterol?

          -  Have you previously had a stroke?

          -  Do you have heart disease?

          -  Do you experience any pain at rest in your lower legs or feet?

          -  Do you have discomfort (aching, fatigue, tingling, cramping or pain) when you walk,
             which is relieved by rest? Does the pain go away within 10 minutes after stopping?

          -  Are your toes or feet pale, discolored, or bluish?

          -  Do you have an infection, skin wound, or ulcer on your feet or toes?

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Not meeting the above criteria.

          -  Previously screened with ABI in past 12 months
      
NCT03155867|Glycemic Response to Six Meal Replacements in Persons With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 20-75 yrs

          -  Type 2 diabetes controlled with diet or diet and oral agent, with the exception of
             sulfonylureas such as glimepiride (Amaryl), glipizide (Glucotrol/Glucotrol XL) and
             glyburide (DiaBeta, Micronase, Glynase Prestabs); meglitinides such as reaglinide
             (Prandin) and nateglinide (Starlix); and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors such as
             acarbose (Precose) and miglitol (Glyset)

          -  Hemoglobin A1C less than 9.0%

          -  Fasting blood glucose less than 180 mg

          -  Hematocrit levels within normal limits

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Abnormal thyroid function

          -  Creatinine >2.0 mg/dL

          -  Potassium <3.5 mEq/L

          -  Gastrointestinal disease: ulcer, gastritis, diarrhea, gastroparesis, vomiting

          -  Currently unstable diabetes or under treatment for cancer, heart disease, renal
             disease

          -  Unable to give informed consent or follow instructions

          -  Current insulin therapy or insulin therapy within the past month

          -  Patient who are pregnant

          -  Allergies to milk, soy or any component of the test product

          -  Patient who in the Investigators assessment cannot be expected to comply with
             treatment

          -  Currently participating or having participated in another clinical trial.

          -  Patients with Anemia
      
NCT03144050|Optical Imaging For Assessment of Foot Perfusion|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant/lactating women

          -  Rheumatoid arthritis
      
NCT03135535|Micro-mobile Foot Compression and Diabetic Foot|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female , age 18 or older with the ability and willingness to provide Informed
             consent

          -  Patient is willing to participate in all procedures and follow up evaluations
             necessary to complete the study

          -  History of type 2 diabetes confirmed by patient's physician.

          -  History of peripheral neurpathy .

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with severe peripheral vascular disease (ankle-brachial systolic pressure
             index (ABI) <0.5 or ABI>1.30)

          -  Patients with active wound infection, or untreated osteomyelitis

          -  Patients with major foot deformities (e.g. Charcot Foot) or major amputation (e.g.
             above ankle)

          -  Unamulatory of those who are unable to independently walk with or without walking
             assistance, a distance of 40 feet.

          -  Patients who are unable or unwilling to participate in all procedures and follow up
             evaluations

          -  Patients currently on immunosuppressive drugs.

          -  Pregnant or breast feeding ladies.
      
NCT03127852|Effects of Remote Patient Monitoring on Chronic Disease Management|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        All participants:

          1. Adults (age 18 years or older)

          2. Diagnosed with HF, COPD, CKD, and/or uncontrolled hypertension (individuals with
             diabetes who require blood glucose monitoring will be included as a co-morbidity only
             if patient's have at least one of the above four chronic illnesses, and will be in
             the form of self-care support only)

          3. Patient or their caregiver speaks and reads English adequately to provide informed
             consent and understand the text prompts in the application.

          4. Ability to comply with using the telemonitoring system (e.g, able to stand on the
             weight scale, able to answer symptom questions, etc.).

        Primary chronic disease-specific criteria:

          -  Patients with HF as the primary chronic disease: with reduced ejection fraction
             (EF<0.40)

          -  Patients with COPD as the primary chronic disease: Spirometrically confirmed
             diagnosis of COPD of GOLD Stage II or higher (defined as post-bronchodilator FEV1 <
             80% predicted and FEV1/FVC ratio < 70%); smoking history of ≥ 20 pack-years or
             homozygous alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency; and prescribed an action plan for the
             early self-treatment of acute exacerbations

          -  Patients with CKD as the primary chronic disease: Grade 3-5 (eGFR < 60mL/1.73 m2)

          -  Patients with uncontrolled hypertension as the primary chronic disease: For
             non-diabetics: blood pressure >=140/90 mmHg auscultatory (manual measurement) or
             >=135/85 mmHg oscillometric (automated measurement). For diabetics: blood pressure
             >=130/80 mmHg

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patients on mechanical circulatory support

          2. Patients on the heart transplant list

          3. Terminal diagnosis with life expectancy < 1 year

          4. Dementia or uncontrolled psychiatric illness

          5. Resident of a long term care facility
      
NCT02863419|Efficacy and Safety of Oral Semaglutide Versus Liraglutide and Versus Placebo in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Male or female, age above or equal to 18 years at the time of signing informed
             consent. For Japan only: Male or female, age at least 20 years at the time of signing
             informed consent

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus for at least 90 days prior to day of
             screening.

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) of 7.0-9.5 % (53-80.3 mmol/mol) (both inclusive)

          -  Stable daily dose of metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or maximum tolerated dose
             as documented in the subject medical record) alone or in combination with a stable
             daily dose of a SGLT-2 (sodium-glucose co-transporter-2) inhibitor for at least 90
             days prior to day of screening (fixed-dose combinations are allowed)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
             contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice).For certain
             specific countries: Additional specific requirements apply

          -  Any disorder, which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety
             or compliance with the protocol

          -  Family or personal history of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 (MEN 2) or
             Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC)

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach and potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery)

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction (MI), stroke or hospitalisation for
             unstable angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the
             day of screening

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Subjects with ALT (alanine aminotransferase) above 2.5 × upper normal limit (UNL)

          -  Renal impairment defined as estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) below 60
             mL/min/1.73 m^2 as per Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration formula
             (CKD-EPI)

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria in a period of 90 days before the day of screening.
             An exception is short-term insulin treatment for acute illness for a total of below
             or equal to 14 days

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within 90 days prior to
             randomisation

          -  History or presence of malignant neoplasms within the last 5 years (except basal and
             squamous cell skin cancer and carcinoma in situ)

          -  History of diabetic ketoacidosis
      
NCT02773381|A Trial Investigating the Effect of Oral Semaglutide Compared With Placebo on Postprandial Glucose and Triglyceride Metabolism, Energy Intake, Appetite Sensations and Gastric Emptying in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, aged 18-75 years (both inclusive) at the time of signing informed
             consent

          -  Subjects diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus for at least 90 days prior to the
             day of screening.

          -  Treated with diet and exercise and/or metformin monotherapy. The metformin dose
             should be unchanged in a period of 30 days prior to screening

          -  Body mass index (BMI) between 20.0-38 kg/m^2 (both inclusive)

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) between 6.0-9.0 % (both inclusive)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using adequate contraceptive methods (adequate
             contraceptive measures as required by local regulation or practice)

          -  Family or personal history of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 or Medullary
             Thyroids Carcinoma

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  Presence of clinically significant or symptoms of gastrointestinal disorders
             potentially affecting absorption of drugs and/or nutrients, as judged by the
             investigator

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery)

          -  History or presence of any clinically relevant respiratory, metabolic (including
             dyslipedimia, however mild dyslipidaemia, defined as screening total cholesterol
             below or equal to 7.8 mmol/L and screening triglyceride below or equal to 3.42 mmol/L
             is accepted), renal, hepatic, gastrointestinal, endocrinological conditions (except
             conditions associated with diabetes mellitus)

          -  History or presence of malignant neoplasms within the last 5 years (except basal and
             squamous cell skin cancer and in-situ carcinomas)

          -  History or presence of cardiovascular disease including stable and unstable angina,
             myocardial infarction, transient ischaemic attack, stroke, cardiac decompensation,
             clinically significant arrhythmias and conduction disorders

          -  Renal impairment with estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) below 60 mL /min as
             defined by CKD-EPI using IDMS for serum creatinine measurement on the day of
             screening

          -  Impaired liver function, defined as ALT above or equal to 2.5 times upper normal
             limit (UNL) on the day of screening

          -  Smoker (defined as a subject who is smoking more than 1 cigarette or the equivalent
             per day). During the in-patient period, the subject must be willing to completely
             refrain from smoking and use of nicotine substitute products

          -  Known or suspected alcohol abuse within 1 year from screening (defined as regular
             intake of more than 21 units weekly for men and 14 units weekly for women - one unit
             of alcohol equals about 300 mL of beer or lager, one glass (100 mL) of wine, or 25 mL
             spirits)
      
NCT02683902|The Effect of Hypocaloric Diet Associated With tDCS on Weight Loss and Metabolic Profile|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Women of childbearing potential who are using medically approved birth control
             methods (eg hormonal contraceptives, intra uterine device (IUDs), barrier
             contraception) and who agree to use the same methods of contraception throughout the
             course of the study.

          2. BMI 25 ≥ 35 Kg/m2 at screening

          3. Stable weight for at least 12 weeks prior to screening

          4. Able and willing to provide written informed consent and to comply with the
             requirements of the study protocol

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Pregnant or intend to become pregnant during the study period or who are currently
             breastfeeding.

          2. Women in perimenopause / menopause, or postmenopausal status, or who have had early
             menopause (under 40 years) or have had a hysterectomy or oophorectomy.

          3. Diagnosis or history of diabetes Mellitus type 1, diabetes resulting from pancreatic
             injury or secondary forms of diabetes, such as, for example, Cushing's syndrome and
             acromegaly.

             3.1. Metabolic and acute complications of diabetes such as ketoacidosis and
             hyperosmolar coma within the past six months.

          4. Gastrointestinal disease clinically symptomatic including, among others, inflammatory
             bowel disease and/or malabsorption diseases.

          5. Have received nutritional counseling in the last six months by a nutritionist.

          6. History of severe depression or other serious psychiatric comorbidities.

          7. History of gastric bypass, antrectomy or small bowel resection.

          8. History of chronic pancreatitis or idiopathic acute pancreatitis

          9. Myocardial infarction (MI), coronary arteries bypass surgery, post-transplant
             cardiomyopathy or stroke in the last 6 months

         10. Any abnormality in clinical laboratory tests which might prevent safe participation
             in the study

         11. Diagnosed and / or treated tumor (except basal cell skin cancer, carcinoma in situ of
             the cervix or prostate cancer in situ) in the last five years.

         12. History of known hemoglobinopathy and chronic anemia.

         13. Donation of one unit (500 ml) of blood or more, significant blood loss equivalent to
             at least one unit of blood within the last 2 weeks or blood transfusion in the past 8
             weeks.

         14. Treatment with any oral antidiabetic drugs and / or herbal preparations or
             medications that do not require a prescription and can affect glycemic control within
             12 weeks prior to screening.

         15. Chronic treatment with oral or parenteral corticosteroids (> 7 consecutive days of
             treatment) within 4 weeks prior to screening.

         16. Treatment with weight loss agents (e.g., orlistat, sibutramine, topiramate,
             bupropion) in the last 12 weeks prior to screening.

         17. Treatment with mineral oil or fiber supplementation (e.g., Benefiber, Metamucil,
             among others).

         18. Treatment with lipid-lowering drugs which have not been kept on a stable dose for the
             past 8 weeks before screening.

         19. Treatment with thyroid replacement hormones which has not been kept on a stable dose
             for the past 12 weeks prior to screening.

         20. Use of drugs under investigation within 30 days or 5 half-lives (whichever is longer)
             before screening unless the guidelines of local health authorities require a longer
             period.

         21. Any of the following laboratory abnormalities identified in the screening by history
             and / or tests brought by the patient or that are part of this protocol, as described
             in section 4.3.4.6 of this project:

             21.1. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and / or Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) > 3
             times the upper limit of normal 21.2. Glomerular filtration rate estimated by Chronic
             Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) equation ≤ 30 ml per min per 1,73
             m2 21.3. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) outside the normal range 21.4. Fasting
             triglycerides ≥ 400 mg / dL. 21.5. History of active substance abuse (including
             alcohol) within the past year

         22. Any condition or concomitant medical disorder, not provided for in other items which
             in the opinion of the investigator, probably:

             22.1. Interfere with the patient's ability to complete the entire study period or
             participate in all activities of the study 22.2. Require during the study,
             administration of a treatment that may affect the interpretation of efficacy and
             safety data

         23. Patients potentially unreliable and those considered by the investigator as
             unsuitable for the study
      
NCT02668250|Influence of a Multi-parametric Optimization Strategy for General Anesthesia on Postoperative Morbidity and Mortality|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All adult patients aged 80 years and over,

          -  presenting at least one of the following comorbidities: ischemic coronary disease;
             cardiac arrhythmia; congestive heart failure; peripheral vascular disease; dementia;
             stroke; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; chronic respiratory failure; chronic
             alcohol abuse; active cancer; diabetes; chronic renal failure A comorbidity index
             will be measured by using the modified Charlson Comorbidity Index

          -  undergoing elective and emergency surgeries including : femoral head fracture, major
             intraperitoneal abdominal surgery lasting > 90 min (excluding elective
             cholecystectomy, abdominal wall surgery), vascular surgery (excluding venous surgery
             and fistula creation)

          -  Patient's or patient's relative signed consent form

          -  Affiliation to French social assurance system

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Acute heart failure and acute coronary syndrome

          -  Acute respiratory failure, pneumonia

          -  Septic shock

          -  Delirium

          -  Acute stroke

          -  Evolutive neuromuscular disorder

          -  Thoracic surgery, combined abdominal and thoracic surgery

          -  Surgery performed under exclusive regional anesthesia

          -  Patients under tutorship or curatorship

          -  Refusal to participate
      
NCT02692716|A Trial Investigating the Cardiovascular Safety of Oral Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female diagnosed with type 2 diabetes

          -  Age at least 50 years at screening and presence of cardiovascular disease, or age at
             least 60 years at screening and presence of at least one cardiovascular risk factor

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current or previous (within 90 days prior to screening) treatment with any GLP-1
             (glucagon-like peptide-1) receptor agonist, DPP-4 (dipeptidyl peptidase-4) inhibitor
             or pramlintide

          -  Family or personal history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2) or
             medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC)

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery)

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV
             heart failure

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction, stroke or hospitalisation for unstable
             angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 60 days prior to screening

          -  Chronic or intermittent hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis or severe renal
             impairment (corresponding to eGFR (glomerular filtration rate, estimated) below 30
             mL/min/1.73 m^2)

          -  History or presence of malignant neoplasms within the last 5 years (except basal and
             squamous cell skin cancer and carcinoma in situ)
      
NCT02777060|Exploring the Effectiveness of Sensor-based Balance Training on Patient Outcome Measures|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Diagnosis of:

          -  diabetes

          -  cancer

          -  multiple sclerosis

          -  arthritis

          -  Parkinson's disease

          -  cognitive disorders

          -  brain injury

          -  frailty

          -  stroke

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  conditions not related to specific disorders affecting balance and gait
      
NCT02846662|Effectiveness of a Mobile Technology Intervention for the Treatment of Depression|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Attending one of 20 selected primary care clinics

          -  Clinical diagnosis of diabetes and/or hypertension

          -  Presenting with depressive symptoms (PHQ-9 ≥10)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Moderate to high suicidal risk (assessed with a standardized protocol)

          -  Not able to read
      
NCT02835287|Diabetes Complication Control in Community Clinics (D4C) Trial|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men or women aged ≥50 years who received primary care from the participating
             community clinics

          -  Uncontrolled diabetes (HbA1C ≥7% or ≥7.5% if with clinical CVD) with at least one
             additional CVD risk factor (SBP ≥140 and/or DBP ≥90 mm Hg and/or LDL-cholesterol ≥100
             mg/dL) or clinical ASCVD (acute coronary syndromes, ischemic stroke, transient
             ischemic attack, or peripheral artery disease)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with NYHA class II-IV heart failure, or receiving hemodialysis, or with
             contraindications to metformin or statin treatments

          -  Women who are pregnant or plan to become pregnant

          -  Patients who cannot be followed for 36 months (due to a health situation or
             migration)

          -  Patients who are unwilling or unable to give informed consent
      
NCT02348099|Ultrasound Detection and Characterization of Subclinical Hypertrophy in Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  19 years of age or older

          -  Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes

          -  Using insulin to manage diabetes for at least 2 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Using insulin pumps, insulin secretagogues, Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonists
             to manage diabetes

          -  Use of immunosuppressant agents

          -  Women who are pregnant
      
NCT02362737|Active and Healthy Brotherhood: A Program for Chronic Disease Self-Management for Black Men|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. AA (based on self-report)

          2. self-reported male

          3. aged 30-64 years

          4. non-institutionalized (i.e., community-dwelling, not living in assisted living
             facilities, nursing homes, etc.)

          5. at high risk for developing chronic disease (e.g., not meeting current guidelines for
             PA and/or F&V intake; current smoker; diagnosed with high cholesterol) or

          6. currently diagnosed with diabetes, hypertension, or cardiovascular disease

          7. residents of Forsyth County, NC (or surrounding areas and able to attend group
             sessions in Forsyth County).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. have had a cardiovascular procedure (e.g., heart surgery), heart attack, heart
             failure, stroke in the last 6 months

          2. have cognitive, visual, auditory, physical functional (e.g., unable to walk
             unassisted), or language impairment precluding participation in group discussion,
             learning activities, or data collection.

          3. currently achieve >150 min/wk of moderate intensity PA or >75 min/wk of vigorous
             intensity PA AND currently consume > 9 servings of F&V daily.

          4. are currently enrolled in a chronic disease management program.

          5. are unwilling to accept randomization assignment or planning to move from local area
             in <2 years.

          6. are currently receiving chemotherapy/radiation treatments.

        Participants will be required to obtain approval from a health care provider prior to
        participation in the study if they:

          1. are unable to participate in moderate PA due to physical limitations as indicated by
             positive (risk) responses on the PA Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) and/or physician
             disapproval on the PAR Medical Examination.

          2. have BP>180/>110 and/or HbA1C>12 and/or triglycerides >500.

          3. have health conditions that could preclude changes to diet (e.g., irritable bowel
             syndrome, celiac disease)
      
NCT02769377|Glucometer and Mobile-phone Based Data Transfer System in Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient with diabetes

          2. Patients' providers advised self-monitor of blood glucose

          3. Provided written informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients had other medical condition that were considered not eligible by the medical
        team members
      
NCT02812238|Study to Evaluate the Effect of Nicotinamide Riboside on Immunity|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        As this is a pilot study, the age-range and BMI range of subjects will be restricted to
        potentially reduce metabolic variables associated with a wide age- and BMI-range.

          -  Males and females between the ages of 18 and 39

          -  BMI between 18.5 and 29.9

          -  Agrees to comply with study procedures and maintain current level of physical
             activity and dietary intake throughout the study.

          -  Female subjects of child-bearing ability willing to commit to reliable contraception
             while participating in the study.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Subjects with an acute or chronic illness as per history, on laboratory analysis or
             requiring medications to manage disease.

          -  Subjects taking vitamins or supplements or any medications, except oral
             contraceptives, within 4 weeks of participation into this study.

          -  BMI <18.5 or >29.9.

          -  Female subjects who are pregnant or lactating.

          -  Subjects who have donated blood or participated in another clinical trial involving
             blood draws in the last 8 weeks.

          -  Subjects who use nicotine products including chewing tobacco, vaporizer, gum,
             cigarette or patch form within three months.

          -  Any other medical condition that, in the opinion of the Principal Investigator, might
             put the subject at risk of harm during the study or might adversely affect the
             interpretation of the study data.
      
NCT03046498|Addressing Diabetes Together|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults 18 years or older

          -  Diagnosis of diabetes

          -  enrolled in the DSMP or DPP

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  unable to provide consent
      
NCT02491801|The Form of Dairy Products on Satiety, Food Intake and Post-meal Glycaemia in Normal Weight and Overweight/Obese Adults|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Healthy or overweight/obese, non-smoking male and female participants aged 20-30

          -  Adults with body mass index between 20-24.9 kg/m2 (normal weight) and 25-35 kg/m2
             (overweight/obese)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetic

          -  Individuals on medication

          -  Lactose-intolerant or allergic to dairy (including milk, yogurt, and cheese)

          -  Breakfast skippers

          -  Gastrointestinal problems

          -  Individuals on an energy-restricted diet
      
NCT02480062|mWELLCARE:An Integrated mHealth System for the Prevention and Care of Chronic Disease|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults aged 30 yrs+ diagnosed with hypertension and /or diabetes who are able to give
             written consent (or verbal witnessed consent for illiterate patients).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patient requiring immediate referral to tertiary care due to accelerated
             hypertension, diabetic complications.

          2. Patients with learning difficulties or vision/ hearing impairments but without a care
             giver making it impossible to use mobile phone.

          3. Pregnant and lactating women.
      
NCT02559479|A Study to Assess the Effect of a Normal vs. High Protein Diets in Carbohydrates Metabolism in Obese Subjects With Diabetes or Prediabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age: 18-70 years old.

          -  Body mass index between 27.5 - 40.

          -  Steady weight (± 4 kg) in the last 2 months.

          -  Glycated hemoglobin between 6 - 7%.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Anti-diabetic drugs (oral or subcutaneous) in the last 2 months.

          -  Lipid-lowering drugs in the last 2 months.

          -  Gouty arthritis in the last 2 years or uric acid > 735 mg/dl.

          -  Presence of uncontrolled endocrinological pathology (including hypothyroidism).

          -  Hepatic chronic disease (glomerular filtration rate < 45 ml/min).

          -  Renal, inflammatory or tumoral diseases.

          -  Drugs which could interfere in glucose or lipid metabolism such as androgens,
             corticosteroids (except for those with topic administration) and estrogen replacement
             therapy.

          -  Intake of functional foods with plant sterols in the past 6 weeks.

          -  High alcohol intake (> 30 g per day).

          -  Any serious disease which involves less than 1 year life expectancy or, in
             investigators judgment, limit the follow-up of an homogeneous diet throughout the
             study.

          -  Pregnancy or intention of pregnancy during the study.
      
NCT02748122|CSII Pilot in Adolescents With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adolescents with Type 2 Diabetes mellitus between the ages of 12- 23 years, who have
             had T2DM for at least 6 month duration, and who have had a HbA1c > 8% in the
             preceding 3 months prior to enrollment into the study. As a diabetes is a chronic
             disease the AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics; 2002) definition of a "Pediatric
             patient "is from birth until 21 years old. There are patients in the Diabetes program
             that we sometimes follow for 2-3 years beyond this age of 21 years and therefore
             would like to offer this study until the age of 23 years. This will give opportunity
             to our patients to be recruited if they would choose to participate in the study.

          -  Confirmed T2DM as defined by American Diabetes Association i.e. FPG > 126 mg/dL or
             blood sugar > 200 mg/dl on a 2 hr, 75 g OGTT or random blood sugar >200 mg/dl.
             Pubertal, Tanner stage >1

          -  Subjects must be willing to comply with study protocol requirements

          -  Females must have a negative pregnancy test within 72 hours prior to the start of the
             study and on every subsequent study visit. If on any visit their pregnancy test is
             positive they will be asked to not continue in the study. If the adolescent is using
             contraception such as birth control pills they will be allowed to continue using them
             during the study as this should not affect glucose levels. Once a female is confirmed
             to be pregnant we will take the insulin pump and restart insulin injection regimen
             that they were before the start of the study. We will also make an aptt with "high
             risk obstretics" and encourage the adolescent to check their blood sugars at least
             4-6 times per day.

          -  The patient must be on insulin to qualify for the study. The adolescents could be on
             oral hypoglycemic agent in addition to insulin to be included in the study.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Chart review of adolescents with T2DM will be done to confirm absence of glutamic
             acid decarboxylase, islet cell or insulin autoantibodies or secondary causes of
             diabetes

          -  Other significant major organ system illness

          -  Females who are pregnant at their initial assessment. We will be testing female
             participants on every visit with a urine pregnancy test and if they are found to
             pregnant we will ask them to stop using their pump and go back to using insulin
             injections.

          -  Significant psychiatric illness: schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, active substance
             abuse and uncontrolled major depression.

          -  All adolescents who have signs of renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance based on
             Schwartz equation >0.55 for females and males 0.7 ages 13-18 years) (13). Serum
             creatinine will be available on the metabolic profile. Subjects with elevated CrCl
             will be excluded from the study.
      
NCT02758899|Diabetes and Glycosylation in Cervical Spondylosis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 18-75

          -  A diagnosis of type I or type II diabetes mellitus (diabetes cohort only)

          -  Clinical diagnosis of cervical myelopathy or cervical spondylosis

          -  Requiring anterior cervical discectomy and fusion

          -  Able to cooperate in the completion of standardized outcome measures (NDI)

          -  Willing and able to comply with study protocol

          -  Control patients will fulfill all eligibility criteria with the exception of
             diagnosis of diabetes.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pre-existent neurologic disorder or mental disorder that would preclude accurate
             evaluation (psychiatric disease, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease)

          -  History of previous anterior cervical fusion adjacent to the operative site

          -  Osteoporosis

          -  Rheumatoid arthritis

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Active malignancy

          -  History of previous posterior cervical decompression
      
NCT02877355|Investigation of the Effect of Upper Gastrointestinal Disease on the Pharmacokinetics of Oral Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes.|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, aged 18-80 years (both inclusive) at the time of signing informed
             consent

          -  Body mass index (BMI) between 18.5-39.9 kg/m^2 (both inclusive)

          -  Subjects diagnosed clinically with type 2 diabetes mellitus for at least 180 days
             prior to the first screening visit

          -  For subjects with upper gastrointestinal (GI) disease: Diagnosed with chronic
             gastritis and/or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) at screening

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using a highly effective contraceptive method
             (adequate contraceptive measures as required by local regulation or practice).
             (Highly effective contraceptive methods are considered those with a failure rate less
             than 1% undesired pregnancies per year including surgical sterilisation, hormonal
             intrauterine devices (coil), oral hormonal contraceptives, sexual abstinence or a
             surgically sterilised partner)

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery)

          -  Unable or unwilling to refrain from smoking during the in-patient periods

          -  Any blood draw in excess of 50 mL in the past 30 days, or donation of blood or plasma
             in excess of 400 mL within 90 days of the first screening visit
      
NCT03036774|Gastric Volume and Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patients aged over 18

          -  American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification 1 to 3

          -  needed a general anesthesia for a programmed surgical intervention

        Non inclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding women

          -  patients already operated or to be operated from the upper digestive tract
             (esophagus, stomach, duodenum)

          -  patients treated with a prokinetic treatment and / or a level 3 analgesic

        Exclusion criteria

          -  unfeasibility to ultrasound measurement of antral area

          -  failure to observe fasting instructions
      
NCT02621489|Effects on Re-endothelialisation With Bydureon Treatment in Type 2 Diabetes Subjects|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Patients eligible for PCI with application of DES, due to ACS.

          2. Patients with known or newly diagnosed T2D (type 2 diabetes is diagnosed according to
             current WHO criteria or by the use of anti-diabetic drugs)

          3. Male and female subjects 18-80 years.

          4. HbA1c (accordingly to IFCC) 47 mmol/mol - 110 mmol/mol.

          5. Signed informed consent form.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Type 1 diabetes (autoantibody positive).

          2. Any history of receiving GLP-1 analogues or dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors within 6
             months

          3. Known severe heart failure, classified as NYHA 4.

          4. Active myocarditis; malfunctioning artificial heart valve.

          5. History of ventricular tachycardia within 3 months before study entry; second- or
             third-degree atrioventricular block.

          6. Supine systolic blood pressure <85 mm Hg or >200 mm Hg at screening.

          7. Primary renal impairment, creatinine clearance < 45 ml/min if treated with metformin.

          8. Uncorrected hypokalemia or hyperkalemia (potassium <3.5 mmol/l or >5.5 mmol/l).

          9. Significant anemia (Hb < 90 g/l)

         10. Severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. As judged by the
             Investigator.

         11. Body mass index (BMI) > 45 kg/m2.

         12. Malignant neoplasm requiring chemotherapy, surgery, radiation or palliative therapy
             in the previous 5 years. Patients with intraepithelial squamous cell carcinoma of the
             skin treated with topical 5FU and subjects with basal cell skin cancer are allowed to
             enter the trial.

         13. Females of child bearing potential who are pregnant, breast-feeding or intend to
             become pregnant.

         14. Current drug and alcohol abuse.

         15. History of acute or chronic pancreatitis

         16. Subjects considered by the Investigator to be unsuitable for the study.
      
NCT02663388|Epigenetic Mechanisms and Severe Obesity (Biological Tissue Collection)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  indication for bariatric surgery with BMI > 35 kg/m2

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  unable to receive clear information

          -  refusal to sign the consent form
      
NCT02614625|Spectral-domain Optical Coherence Tomography of the Eye|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 21 and older

          -  Normal eyes or

          -  Eyes with corneal disease:

        Subjects that have any of the following conditions

          1. Corneal dystrophy or degeneration

          2. Corneal scarring

          3. Corneal ulcer

          4. Corneal injury

          5. Keratoconus

          6. Patients who had undergone corneal surgery

          7. Patients with other corneal disease or - Eyes with retinal disease:

        Subjects that have any of the following conditions:

          1. Diabetic macular edema

          2. Cystoid macular edema

          3. Age related macular degeneration

          4. Retinal vascular disorders (e.g. retinal artery occlusion)

          5. Epiretinal membrane

          6. Choroidal nevus

          7. Macular hole

          8. Patients who had undergone retinal surgery

          9. Patients with other retinal disease or

               -  Eyes with glaucoma

               -  Normal findings in the medical history and physical examination unless the
                  investigator considers an abnormality to be clinically irrelevant.

        AND

        - Written informed consent prior to recruitment

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Any of the following will exclude a subject from the study:

          -  Patients who are not able to cooperate or with insufficient ability to fixate
             (tremor, nystagmus)

          -  Pregnancy (pregnancy test will be taken in women of reproductive age before enrolment
             into the trial)
      
NCT02932475|Medical Optimization of Management of Type 2 Diabetes Complicating Pregnancy (MOMPOD)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Maternal age 18-45 years

          -  Singleton pregnancy with no known fetal anomalies

          -  Gestational age between 10weeks 0 days and 20 weeks 6 days by menstrual dating
             confirmed by ultrasound, or ultrasound alone

          -  Clinical diagnosis of preexisting T2DM requiring medical treatment (oral agent or
             insulin)

          -  Clinical diagnosis of diabetes diagnosed between 10 weeks and < 20 weeks 6 days
             gestation

          -  Willing to start insulin therapy and discontinue oral hypoglycemic pills other than
             study pills

          -  Able to swallow pills

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Clinical diagnosis of pre-existing renal disease, defined as creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL

          -  Clinical history of lactic acidosis

          -  Known allergy to metformin

          -  Participation in another study that could affect primary outcome

          -  Delivery planned at non-MOMPOD study locations

          -  Unwillingness to use insulin treatment or follow prenatal care doctor's instructions
             for insulin and blood glucose monitoring
      
NCT02480244|PASOS: Improving the Health of Immigrant Workers|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Work at Reiter Brothers Inc. (RBI), a partner, or affiliate company

          -  Able to speak and understand Spanish

          -  Willing to attend weekly sessions for length of intervention

          -  Plan to stay in the area for the next three months

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Workers without Spanish language comprehension

          -  Pregnant women and those planning a pregnancy within six months

          -  Women who are breastfeeding, unless discontinuing breastfeeding within one month

          -  Individuals who, without health care provider approval, are: unable to undertake
             moderate physical exercise, taking medicine for high blood pressure or heart
             conditions, have bone or joint problems, lose consciousness or fall due to dizziness,
             or have developed chest pain within the last month

          -  Individuals taking medications that affect weight

          -  Individuals with therapeutic diets

          -  Diabetic status determined by health care professional after HbA1c testing result is
             >6.5%

          -  If spouse / cohabitant is already in the study
      
NCT02760017|Bauhinia Forficata in Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type II diabetic patients

          -  Using oral antidiabetic treatment for at least 3 months

          -  Glycated hemoglobin levels > 7.5% or

          -  Fasting glucose levels >=100mg/dl

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes patients

          -  History of cancer under treatment

          -  Major cardiovascular event during the last 90 days (eg. stroke, myocardial
             infarction)

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Lactation

          -  Serious diseases presenting limited short-term prognosis (eg stage IV COPD end-stage
             heart failure)

          -  Child B or C cirrhotic patients

          -  Patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis
      
NCT02935855|ORal anticoaGulants in diAbetic and Nondiabetic Patients With nOn-valvular Atrial fibrillatioN (ORGANON)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  non-valvular atrial fibrillation

          -  nondiabetic patients

          -  type 1 and 2 diabetic patients

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  patients with cancer

          -  patients with chronic inflammation diseases
      
NCT03078478|A Trial Comparing the Efficacy and Safety of Insulin Degludec and Insulin Glargine 300 Units/mL in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Inadequately Treated With Basal Insulin With or Without Oral Antidiabetic Drugs|
        Inclusion criteria:

          -  Male or female, age above or equal to 18 years at the time of signing informed
             consent.

          -  Subjects fulfilling at least one of the below criteria (For this inclusion criterion
             the aim is to include minimum 80% of individuals with a previous episode of
             hypoglycaemia (criterion e). The remaining subjects will have to fulfil at least one
             of criteria a-d.):

          -  a) Experienced at least one severe hypoglycaemic episode within the last year
             (according to the ADA definition, April 2013 (An episode requiring assistance of
             another person to actively administer carbohydrate, glucagon, or take other
             corrective actions. Plasma glucose concentrations may not be available during an
             event, but neurological recovery following the return of plasma glucose to normal is
             considered sufficient evidence that the event was induced by a low plasma glucose
             concentration.).

          -  b) Moderate chronic renal failure, defined as glomerular filtration rate 30 - 59
             mL/min/1.73 m^2 per CKD-EPI by central laboratory analysis.

          -  c) Hypoglycaemic symptom unawareness (History of impaired autonomic responses
             (tremulousness, sweating, palpitations, and hunger) during hypoglycaemia).

          -  d) Treated with insulin for more than 5 years.

          -  e) Episode of hypoglycaemia (defined by symptoms of hypoglycaemia and/or episode with
             low glucose measurement (equal to or below 70 mg/dL [equal to or below 3.9 mmol/L]))
             within the last 12 weeks prior to Visit 1 (screening).

          -  Subjects diagnosed (clinically) with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

          -  Treated with basal only insulin (once daily or twice-daily insulin (insulin detemir;
             insulin glargine 100 U/mL, biosimilar of insulin glargine 100 U/mL or insulin Neutral
             Protamine Hagedorn)) equal to or above 90 days prior to the day of screening with or
             without any of the following anti-diabetic drugs with stable doses for equal to or
             above 90 days prior to screening:

          -  a) Metformin

          -  b) Dipeptidyl peptidase -4 inhibitor

          -  c) Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor

          -  d) Alpha-glucosidase-inhibitors (acarbose)

          -  e) Thiazolidinediones

          -  f) Marketed oral combination products only including the products listed in criteria
             5a-5e

          -  HbA1c equal to or below 9.5% (80 mmol/mol) at screening by central laboratory
             analysis.

          -  BMI equal to or below 45 kg/m^2.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        - Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
        stated in the inclusion criteria in a period of 90 days before the day of screening
      
NCT02486341|Daily Glycaemic Variability in Frail or Disabled Older Patients With Diabetes Over 75 Treated With Basal Insulin|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age> or equal to 75 years,

          -  Diabetes mellitus diagnosed or Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) > 7% or 2 fasting blood
             glucose > to 1.26g/l,

          -  Treated with basal insulin associated or not with metformin (one or two injections
             per day, in the morning and/or evening before meals)

          -  Subject affiliated or beneficiary of a social security system,

          -  Free consent, informed and signed by the participant or by the surrogate of the
             patient and the investigator,

          -  Patient in the 4th or higher categories of frailty according to Rockwood .

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Refusal of wearing a continuous glucose monitoring system,

          -  Total autonomy (mobility according to Rosow and Breslau scale, instrumental
             activities of daily living according to Lawton scale, activities of daily living
             according to Barthel score),

          -  Treatment with insulinosecretors Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, Glucagon-like
             peptide-1 analogues, sulfonylurea) or rapid insulin (human or rapid analogue),

          -  Daily dose of basal insulin with change of 20% or more in the last 7 days,

          -  Current treatment with corticosteroids,

          -  Acute pathology in the last 7 days :

          -  Infection treated with antibiotic

          -  New stroke in the last 7 days

          -  Cardio-respiratory decompensation: change in daily dose of diuretics or
             oxygenotherapy during the last 7 days,

          -  Clinically unstable patients according judgement of investigator,

          -  Behavioural disturbances like Agitation/Aggressivity according the Neuropsychiatric
             Inventory (NPI),

          -  All people who are under legal protection,

          -  All people who will be not able to finish the follow of the study,

          -  Currently participating in another clinical trial investigating.
      
NCT02663544|The Impact of Low-fat and Full-fat Dairy Consumption on Glucose Homeostasis (DAIRY Study)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Metabolic syndrome (three of the following five criteria):

               -  Increased waist circumference: In Asians: ≥ 90 cm in men, ≥ 80 cm in women; in
                  all other races: ≥ 102 cm in men, ≥ 88 cm in women

               -  Fasting plasma triglycerides ≥ 150 mg/dL, or drug treatment for elevated
                  triglycerides

               -  High-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol <40 mg/dL in males or <50 mg/dL in
                  females, or drug treatment for reduced HDL-cholesterol

               -  Systolic blood pressure ≥ 135 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥ 85 mm Hg or
                  drug treatment for hypertension

               -  Fasting plasma glucose ≥ 100 mg/dL or previous diagnosis of diabetes

          -  Body weight within 10% of current weight over the last 6 months before starting the
             study

          -  Able to come to the FHCRC regularly to pick up food

          -  Able and willing to attend a study initiation meeting of ~1.5 hour duration at the
             FHCRC, two clinic visits of ~5 hours duration each at the University of Washington
             (UW) Medial Center Clinical Research Center (CRC), and two clinic visits of ~2 hours
             duration each at the UW Bio-Molecular Imaging Center (BMIC)

          -  Willing to follow the dietary regimen

          -  Able to provide informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Antidiabetic medications or insulin within the last 6 months

          -  Uncontrolled diabetes, defined as HbA1c > 8.0%

          -  Allergy to milk protein

          -  Presence of major chronic inflammatory or autoimmune disease (with acute symptoms or
             CRP > 10 mg/L), or malabsorption syndromes

          -  Presence or history of liver disease or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis

          -  Uncontrolled thyroid disease

          -  Inability or unwillingness to eat the provided foods

          -  Contraindications for MRI scan other than body size

          -  Intake of drugs likely to interfere with study endpoints, including corticosteroids,
             anabolic steroids, antiretroviral drugs, anti-psychotic drugs and immunosuppressive
             drugs (within 3 months of starting the study)

          -  Regular high-dose use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (more than 3 times per
             week and more than 600 mg per day, within 3 months of starting the study)

          -  Presence or recent history of anemia (within 3 months of starting the study)

          -  History of bariatric surgery

          -  Participation in an intervention study or weight-loss program (within 3 months of
             starting the study)

          -  Alcohol intake > 2 drinks per day (within 12 months of starting the study)

          -  Use of tobacco products, eCigarettes, or recreational drugs on more than 2 days per
             month (within 12 months of starting the study)

          -  Current or recent (within 12 months of starting the study) pregnancy or
             breastfeeding, or intention of becoming pregnant in the next 6 months

          -  Fasting Triglycerides >1000mg/dL

          -  Any cancer other than non-melanoma skin cancer in the last 3 years

          -  Other significant health condition, as determined by researcher and Physician of
             Record, that makes the individual unfit to participate
      
NCT02859116|Collection of Gastrointestinal Tissue Samples for the Characterization and ex Vivo Functional Assessment of Chemoreceptors|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Men and women age 18 years and older who are having elective gastrointestinal surgery

          2. Able to provide written, informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Unable to provide written, informed consent

          2. Use of antibiotics for more than 5 consecutive days in the three months prior to the
             study
      
NCT03058926|Coordinating and Data Management Center for the Consortium for the Study of Chronic Pancreatitis, Diabetes, and Pancreatic Cancer|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Participants with chronic pancreatis, diabetes, and pancreatic cancer recruited
             through Consortium.

        Exclusion Criteria:
      
NCT02587936|Improving Chronic Disease Management With Pieces|
        Inclusion Criteria

          -  CKD Inclusion Criteria (present at least ≥ 3 months apart)

               1. There will be two or more Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFRs)
                  calculations less than 60ml/minute (corrected for BSA) or

               2. Two or more positive tests for albuminuria and/or proteinuria
                  Albuminuria/proteinuria can be defined by quantitative criteria with
                  albumin/creatinine ratio greater than 30mg/g, urine protein creatinine ratio
                  greater than 200mg/g or positive dipstick with protein detection (adjusted for
                  urinary concentration/specific gravity).

          -  Diabetes Inclusion Criteria Only patients with type 2 diabetes will be enrolled in
             this study.

               1. Random blood glucose greater than 200mg/dL

               2. Hemoglobin A1C greater than 6.5%

               3. Use of hypoglycemic agents or

               4. Type 2 diabetes included in problem list

          -  Hypertension Inclusion Criteria

               1. Systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mmHg on two different occasions at
                  least one week apart

               2. Diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 on two occasions at least more than one
                  week apart

               3. Use of antihypertensive agents except thiazide diuretics or

               4. Hypertension included in problem list

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Exclusion criteria will be minimal in this pragmatic trial. The collaborative model
             of care will not be implemented in patients younger than 18 years or older than 85
             years of age or patients who have CKD stage 5/End Stage Renal Disease(ESRD.

          -  Primary care practitioners have the option of not implementing the intervention on
             any of their patients if they believe benefit to be minimal or risk too high due to
             patient comorbidities
      
NCT02964247|LIRA-ADD2SGLT2i - Liraglutide Versus Placebo as add-on to SGLT2 Inhibitors.|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial.

          -  Male or female, age 18 years or older at the time of signing informed consent.

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

          -  HbA1c of 7.0-9.5% (53-80 mmol/mol) (both inclusive).

          -  Stable dose of an SGLT-2 inhibitor as monotherapy or in combination (including
             fixed-dose drug combination) with a stable dose of metformin (1500 mg or more, or
             maximum tolerated dose) for at least 90 days prior to the day of screening. All
             medications in compliance with current local label.

          -  Body mass index of 20 kg/m^2 or above.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
             contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice).

          -  History of diabetic ketoacidosis while being treated with SGLT2 inhibitors.

          -  Renal impairment measured as estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) value of
             less than 60 mL/min/1.73m^2 as defined by Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes
             (KDIGO) classification using isotope dilution mass spectrometry (IDMS) for serum
             creatinine measured at screening.

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria within the past 90 days prior to the day of
             screening. However, short term insulin treatment for a maximum of 14 days during the
             90 days prior to screening is allowed.

          -  Family or personal history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 or medullary
             thyroid carcinoma. Family is defined as a first degree relative.

          -  History or presence of pancreatitis (acute or chronic).

          -  Impaired liver function, defined as ALT 2.5 or more times upper normal limit at
             screening.

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV.
      
NCT03059550|Screening for Glucose Metabolism Disorders in Cardiac Rehabilitation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patients referred to cardiac rehabilitation after an acute coronary syndrome during
             the 6 precious weeks

        Exclusion Criteria:
      
NCT03077997|Internet Intervention for Diabetes Distress|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Aged between 25-80.

          -  Have type 2 diabetes for five years or more.

          -  Have internet access

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Outside of age criteria.

          -  Does not have type 2 diabetes for five years or more.

          -  No internet access
      
NCT02694796|Impact of Web and Smartphone-based Physical Activity Program on Physical Activity Level 12 Months After a Balneotherapy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  age between 50 and 79

          -  BMI between 19 and 35 kg.m2

          -  stabilized chronic disease : cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, chronic
             obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatic diseases, breast cancer

          -  practice of moderate physical activity less than 150 minutes per week

          -  practice of sportive activity less than 2h per week

          -  having access to internet

          -  possessing a smartphone connected to internet

          -  good comprehension of french

          -  notice and informed consent signed

          -  no contraindication to practice physical activity

          -  subject to French Social Security

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  wearing a cardiac pacemaker

          -  non-stabilized chronic disease

          -  invalidating pathology of locomotor system

          -  metastatic cancers

          -  being in an exclusion period for participating in another study or having received
             more than 4500€ during the year due to participation in clinical studies

          -  being under supervision

          -  refusing to be register in the French National Volunteers Register
      
NCT02711059|Insulin Resistance in Primary Hyperparathyroidism|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  primary hyperparathyroidism and fb-glukos>6,1 and/or HbA1c > 39 mmol/mol

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Treatment with insulin, sulfonylurea or metformin
      
NCT02416193|Can Vitamin D3 Improve Cognitive Function in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes? (THINK-D)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Women and men aged 18 to 75 years

          -  Have type 2 diabetes

          -  Having a subjective complaint of a cognitive dysfunction or scoring at least one
             standard deviation below normal on a cognitive functioning screening test

          -  Vitamin D level as measured by 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OH D) < 32 ng/mL

          -  Under the care of a healthcare provider

          -  Systolic blood pressure ≤160 and diastolic blood pressure ≤100

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Persons with malabsorption problems (e.g., crohn's disease)

          -  Hypercalcemia

          -  Supplementation other than a daily multivitamin

          -  Severe complications of diabetes (i.e., amputation, blindness, and dialysis)

          -  Concomitant use of steroids

          -  GFR < 60

          -  Creatinine > 1.2

          -  Significant depressive symptoms

          -  Having a history of bipolar depression, psychotic disorders, loss of consciousness
             greater than 5 minutes, or a current alcohol or substance use disorder

          -  Other serious medical conditions deemed significant by the PI or medical monitor

          -  Concomitant use of cholinesterase inhibitors

          -  Concomitant use of anxiolytics, kava kava, St. John's Wort, or Ginkgo Biloba

          -  Pregnancy

          -  HbA1c >13%
      
NCT02517242|Syringes Replacement for Insulin Application for Pens Device in a Population of Elderly Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: Multifactorial Intervention to Improve Glycemic Control|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Sixty years or older

          -  Diabetes type 2 with Glycated Hemoglobin higher than 8.5%

          -  Using or necessity to use insulin

          -  Using syringe to insulin

          -  Using at least one oral antidiabetic

          -  Accept to participate

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Glomerular Filtration Rate lower than 30

          -  Considering unfit for self administration of insulin
      
NCT02617693|Development of Pre-pregnancy Intervention to Reduce the Risk of Diabetes and Prediabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Nulliparity

          -  Not pregnant at the time of signing informed consent

          -  Own a smartphone with either Android system version 4.1 and above or iOS system 7.0
             and above with internet access

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female subject undergoing treatment for type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus

          -  Subjects not residing in the district of Seremban
      
NCT02658591|Effects of Faba Bean Fractions as Ingredients in Novel Food Products on Glycemia, Appetite and Metabolic Control|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Non-smoking

          -  No metabolic disease

          -  BMI 20 - 25 kg/m^2

          -  Male

          -  Age 18-30

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Intolerance to treatments

          -  Currently taking appetite-modifying medications

          -  Restrictive eating

          -  Smoking

          -  Over- or underweight

          -  Breakfast-skipping
      
NCT02682056|Glucose Measurement Using Microneedle Patches|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetes diagnosis

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  no exclusion criteria are specified
      
NCT02363803|Lidocaine for Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age ≥18;

          2. Diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus (Fasting Plasma Glucose > 126 mg/dL and/or HbA1C
             >6.5%);

          3. Distal symmetric pain in lower extremities with duration of more than 3 months;

          4. Presence of either numbness or at least 1 sensory disturbance (increased or decreased
             sensitivity) in the feet.

          5. Spontaneous pain with intensity of ≥ 4 on 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale (NRS).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Not giving consent to participate in the study;

          2. Unable to complete self-report pain questionnaire;

          3. History of moderate to severe renal or liver failure;

          4. History of other central or peripheral neurologic disorders;

          5. History of cardiac arrhythmias;

          6. Contraindication to intravenous lidocaine;

          7. Pregnancy or lactation.
      
NCT02681718|Controlling Hyperglycemia Among Minority Population|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        *Hyperglycemia with A1C ≥9%

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Lives greater than 20 miles driving distance from Mount Sinai Hospital

          -  Pregnant women with gestational diabetes

          -  Advanced end-organ complications due to diabetes that include: end-stage renal
             disease, stroke with paresis, Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA class III or IV), or
             other major end-organ complication of diabetes

          -  Receiving treatment for a major psychiatric disorder (i.e. schizophrenia)

          -  Unable to understand and give informed consent in either English or Spanish

          -  Currently or previously participated in a diabetes research study

          -  Family member currently enrolled in a diabetes research study

          -  Previously received diabetes care related cell phone text messages

          -  Unable to receive text messages 3-4 times per week

          -  Living in a homeless shelter or temporary housing

          -  Plans to travel outside of the United States for more than 3 months in next year
      
NCT02577874|A Comparison of European and Chinese Blood Sugar Responses|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  European ethnicity

          -  Chinese ethnicity

          -  age 19-59 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  diabetics

          -  serious blood born infection

          -  haemophilia
      
NCT02671136|Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy as Adjunctive Therapy to Scaling and Root-planing in the Management of Periodontitis in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetes type 2 (HbA1c =>7%)

          -  Generalized moderate to severe chronic periodontitis.

          -  Minimum of 10 permanent teeth

          -  Registered LLU patients

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Well controlled Diabetes type 2

          -  Other systematic conditions with known associations to periodontitis

          -  Intra-oral conditions which may interfere with the accuracy of periodontal probing

          -  BMI greater than 45%
      
NCT02838693|Assessing Progression to Type-2 Diabetes (APT-2D): A Prospective Cohort Study Expanded From BRITE-SPOT (Bio-bank and Registry for StratIfication and Targeted intErventions in the Spectrum Of Type 2 Diabetes)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Ability to give informed consent

          2. At least 30 years old, and not older than 65 years

          3. Overtly healthy males or females, as determined by medical history, physical
             examination and laboratory results

          4. Not on any regular medications. Subjects using traditional medicine concomitantly
             will also be excluded in this study

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. History or presence of current cardiovascular, respiratory, hepatic, renal,
             gastrointestinal, endocrine, hematological, malignancy or neurological disorders
             capable of significantly altering the performance of the biomarker panel; or of
             interfering with the interpretation of data

          2. Known or ongoing psychiatric disorders within 3 years

          3. Regularly use known drugs of abuse within 3 years

          4. Women who are pregnant or lactating

          5. Have donated blood of more than 500 mL within 4 weeks of study enrollment.

          6. Have an average weekly alcohol intake that exceeds 21 units per week (males) and 14
             units per week (females) (1 unit = 12 oz or 360 mL of beer; 5 oz or 150 mL of wine;
             1.5 oz or 45 mL of distilled spirits)

          7. Uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure [BP] >160/100mmHg

          8. Active infection requiring systemic antiviral or antimicrobial therapy that will not
             be completed prior to Study Day 1

          9. Treatment with any investigational drug, or biological agent within one (1) month of
             screening or plans to enter into an investigational drug/ biological agent study
             during the duration of this study

         10. Known allergy to insulin

         11. History of bleeding diathesis or coagulopathy

         12. Any of the following laboratory values at screening:

               -  LDL > 190mg/dL (>4.9mmol/L)

               -  TG > 500mg/dL (>5.6mmol/L)

               -  Hba1C >= 6.5%

               -  Fasting glucose >=126mg/dL(>=7mmol/L) or 2 hour post-prandial glucose >=200mg/dL
                  (>=11.1mmol/L)

               -  ALT > 3.0 x upper limit of normal

               -  Estimated creatinine clearance <60 mL/min

         13. Have any other conditions, which, in the opinion of the Investigator would make the
             subject unsuitable for inclusion, or could interfere with the subject participating
             in or completing the study

         14. Significant change in weight (+/- 5%) during the past month
      
NCT02384018|Mesenchymal Stem Cell and Islet Co-transplantation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Chronic pancreatitis patients who undergo TP-IAT.

          -  >18 years of age.

          -  Patients with BMI from 18.5 to 30.

          -  Renal function: >90mls/min/1.73m squared

          -  Normal INR/PT/PTT values for MUSC clinical laboratory standards

          -  Diabetes free before surgery (fasting blood glucose<125mg/dl).

          -  No prior pancreatic surgery with the exception of transduodenal sphincteroplasty or
             Whipple/Beger procedure.

          -  Patients with normal liver function as measured by serum levels of aminotransferase
             including alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and
             total bilirubin levels.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients whose Hemoglobin, Hematocrit, and Platelet count are above or below normal
             values for MUSC clinical laboratory standards.

          -  Patients who has hematological malignancy.

          -  Patients who are under immunosuppression.

          -  Patients with marked calcification disease on CT scan.

          -  Patients with severe fibrosis and atrophy on pancreas MRI.
      
NCT02536768|Evaluation of South Africa's National Adherence Strategy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  ≥ 18 years old

          -  Meet the inclusion criteria for one or more intervention

          -  Not resident in the facility's catchment area

          -  Recorded intention to transfer care to a different facility within 12 months

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant and eligible for PMTCT
      
NCT02500303|Influence of Diabetes on Lower Limb Amputation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Over 18 years of age with a major amputation above the ankle.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Amputation for tumour, trauma, congenital abnormalities

          -  Amputation at hip disarticulation or trans-pelvectomy level

          -  Adults with incapacity
      
NCT02501746|Bridging Income Generation With Group Integrated Care|
        Inclusion criteria:

        Adults in the CDM Program who:

          -  Have diabetes (fasting glucose ≥ 7 mmol/L);

          -  Are at increased risk for developing diabetes (impaired fasting glucose (fasting
             glucose 5.6 - 6.9 mmol/L);

          -  Have an elevated Leicester Risk Assessment score (≥ 7)

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Acute illness requiring immediate medical attention;

          -  Terminal illness;

          -  Refusal to provide informed consent;

          -  Individuals who are pregnant or have HIV will be excluded, (automatically referred to
             a higher level of care within the AMPATH care system).

        Participation in the trial will not be contingent upon membership in a group. An
        intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted and the denominator in each cluster will
        include all eligible individuals who consent, irrespective of whether they are in a group,
        thus minimizing selection bias.
      
NCT02730377|Efficacy in Controlling Glycaemia With Victoza® (Liraglutide) as add-on to Metformin vs. OADs as add-on to Metformin After up to 104 Weeks of Treatment in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female at least 18 years of age at the time of signing informed consent

          -  Subjects diagnosed (clinically) with type 2 diabetes equal to or above 90 days prior
             to the screening visit

          -  Stable daily dose of metformin as monotherapy equal to or above 1500 mg or maximum
             tolerated dose within 60 days prior to the screening visit

          -  HbA1c 7.5-9.0% (59-75 mmol/mol) (both inclusive) and measured within the last 90 days
             prior to the screening visit

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             childbearing potential and not using adequate contraceptive methods (adequate
             contraceptive measures as required by local regulation or practice)

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes other than metformin in
             a period of 60 days before the screening visit. An exception is short-term treatment
             (below or equal to 7 days in total) with insulin in connection with intercurrent
             illness

          -  Receipt of any investigational medicinal product within 30 days before the screening
             visit

          -  Any disorder, which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety
             or compliance with the protocol
      
NCT03026426|Effectiveness of a mHealth Intervention for the Treatment of Depression in People With Diabetes or Hypertension in Peru|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 21 or older

          -  Presenting depressive symptoms (PHQ9≥10)

          -  Clinical diagnosis of diabetes and/or hypertension

          -  Able to read

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  If pregnant, the diagnosis of hypertension or diabetes is not related to the current
             pregnancy

          -  Moderate or severe suicide risk (Level B2 or C measured by S-RAP)
      
NCT03068286|iCBT for Long-term Conditions in IAPT|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  18 years of age

          -  English language speakers

          -  Have capacity to consent

          -  Has a chronic condition (Diabetes, COPD, Chronic Pain) with comorbid depression
             and/or anxiety.

          -  Suitable for step 2 intervention in NHS IAPT Services.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Exceed cut-off score for risk in terms of self-harm on the screening questionnaires.

          -  Receiving an intervention (therapeutic or biological) that is not a part of treatment
             as usual, or another trial.
      
NCT02470260|Northern Manhattan Study of Metabolism and Mind|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Self identified Hispanic (any Hispanic subgroup)

          -  Man or woman.

          -  Between the ages of 50 and 64 years at baseline

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  History of cancer other than non-melanoma skin cancer

               -  The expectation of moving out for the country permanently before during the
                  study period

               -  Presence of a clinical diagnosis of dementia, which we anticipate will be
                  unlikely in this age group.

               -  Visual, hearing, or physical impairment that precludes active participation in
                  the study and inability to complete study questionnaires.
      
NCT02630524|Diet Composition and Cardiometabolic Risk Reduction in Adults With SCI|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  SCI ≥ 1 year post injury

          -  manual wheelchair user

          -  able to use arms for exercise

          -  BMI of 25-50 kg/m2

          -  19-60 years old

          -  reliable access to internet and smartphone

          -  have the ability to converse in English

          -  ability to prepare own food or have input into person responsible for food
             preparation

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  heart disease

          -  renal disease

          -  active pressure sore

          -  persons on medically restricted diets
      
NCT02779556|Health Literacy Intervention to Improve Diabetes Outcomes Among Rural Primary Care Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  21 years of age or older

          -  English speaking

          -  two or more visits to a regional family medical center study site in the past 18
             months

          -  confirmed diagnosis of type 2 diabetes as documented in the electronic health record

          -  recent Hemoglobin A1c reading of >7.5% and less than 10%

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  uncorrectable visual impairments

          -  hearing impairments

          -  cognitive impairments
      
NCT02852759|A Cold Physical Treatment to Manage Insulin Resistance|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI: 20-30

          -  Insulin resistant

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  uncontrolled hypertension

          -  insulin dependent diabetics

          -  hyperglycemia after combination of two drugs

          -  diagnosed type 2 diabetes over 1 year

          -  heart diseases

          -  hyperthyroidism

          -  secondary obesity

          -  surgical operation within treatment or planned in two months

          -  pregnancy

          -  anemia

          -  liver or kidney failure

          -  cancer
      
NCT03113006|The Individually-Marked Panretinal Laser phoTocoagulation for Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Study (TREAT)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetes mellitus.

          -  Newly diagnosed, untreated PDR in one eye (the possibility of inclusion of both eyes
             by bilateral PDR).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetic macular edema in the affected eye.

          -  Age <18 years.

          -  Pregnancy.

          -  Ambiguities in refracting media on topical eye.
      
NCT02399423|The GlasVEGAS Study (Glasgow Visceral & Ectopic Fat With Weight Gain in South AsianS)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Participants will be men of European (self-report of both parents of white European
             origin) or South Asian (self-report of both parents of Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi
             or Sri Lankan origin) with BMI <25 kg.m-2, who have been weight stable (± 2 kg) for
             >6 months.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Exclusion criteria will include diabetes (physician diagnosed or HbA1c ≥6.5% on
             screening), history of cardiovascular disease, regular participation in vigorous
             physical activity, current smoking, taking drugs or supplements thought to affect
             carbohydrate or lipid metabolism, or other significant illness that would prevent
             full participation in the study.
      
NCT02443155|A Clinical Proof-of-principle Trial in Adult Subjects With Newly Diagnosed Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Investigating the Effect of NNC0114-0006 and Liraglutide on Preservation of Beta-cell Function|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  T1DM (type 1 diabetes mellitus) (as diagnosed clinically) for not more than 20 weeks
             prior to screening

          -  Male or female, aged 18-45 (both inclusive) at the time of signing the informed
             consent form

          -  Non-fasting peak C-peptide higher or equal to 0.2 nmol/l at visit 2

          -  BMI (body mass index) higher or equal to 18.5 kg/m^2

          -  Presence of one or more islet specific auto antibodies (glutamic acid decarboxylase
             (GAD), islet antigen-2 (IA2) or zinc-transporter 8 (ZnT8)) at screening

          -  Insulin dependence unless in temporary spontaneous remission (honeymoon period)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Daily insulin usage above 1 U/kg per day at screening or use of continuous
             subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII)

          -  History of recurrent (e.g. several times a year) of severe (e.g. pneumonia) or
             chronic infections or conditions predisposing to chronic infections (e.g.,
             bronchiectasis and chronic osteomyelitis)

          -  History of severe systemic fungal infection within the past 12 months prior to
             screening unless treated and resolved with appropriate documented therapy

          -  Vaccination within 4 weeks before randomisation, Visit 3 (V3)

          -  Receipt of any other concomitant medications or herbal products that can influence
             the immune system within 90 days prior to screening (V1)

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  Family or personal history of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 (MEN2) or Medullary
             Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC)

          -  Any past or current diagnosis of malignant neoplasms

          -  Known impairment of the immune system, except for T1DM, coeliac disease, alopecia,
             autoimmune antibodies not considered clinical important (e.g. thyroid antibodies
             without any clinically important thyroid disease), and vitiligo
      
NCT02459535|Immediate and Long-term Induction of Incretin Release by Artificial Sweeteners 1|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  healthy

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  metabolic disorders such as diabetes, hypothyroidism, corticoid therapy, heart or
             lung disease
      
NCT02888951|Gastric Ultrasound of Diabetic and Non-Diabetic Patients Following Preoperative Fasting Instructions|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients scheduled for elective surgery aged 18 to 85years

          -  American Society of Anesthesia physical status classification I to III

          -  Body mass index < 40 kg/ cm2.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy (currently or within the past 3 months)

          -  Previous surgery of the upper gastrointestinal tract

          -  Achalasia
      
NCT02356848|STEP UP to Avert Amputation in Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults (21 years) with Type 2 diabetes

          -  History of healed diabetic foot ulcer (>3 months)

          -  Diabetes drug therapy for > 6 months

          -  An available phone and receiving continuity of care at the VA (at least 2 primary
             care visits in the previous 1.5 years at the recruitment site)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with an active foot ulcer

          -  Acute cardiovascular disease (CVD) events < 3 months ago

          -  Poor estimated short-term survival (< 1 year)

          -  Recent major surgery (< 3 months)

          -  Prior foot amputation

          -  Inability to exercise

          -  Temporary residence in the area

          -  Inability to provide consent will be excluded
      
NCT02709629|CCT for Older Diabetic Adults|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 65 and over

          -  diagnosis of type 2 diabetes

          -  Health cover provided by Maccabi Health Services (MHS)

          -  Access to a home computer and internet connection

          -  Availability of a close relative/informant with regular and frequent contact with the
             participant (at least 10 hours per week), willing to respond to questionnaires at all
             time points.

          -  Fluency in Hebrew or English

          -  Living in the Tel-Aviv metropolitan area and surrounds

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  An existing diagnosis of dementia

          -  Prescription of dementia-related medication.

          -  Participation in a previous cognitive intervention study in the preceding year.

          -  Significant hearing/vision impairment likely to interfere with assessment and/or
             training

          -  Significant psychiatric/neurological or medical issues that may affect cognitive
             function.
      
NCT03070106|Diabetes: Functional Medicine Approach vs. Usual Care|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Seen in the Cleveland Clinic Main Campus Endocrinology Clinics

          -  Diagnosis of Type 2 Diabetes

          -  Insulin treatment for at least 12 months, but for less than 96 months

          -  Total Daily Insulin Dose <= 150 units

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Positive glutamate decarboxylase antibody

          -  C peptide < 0.8 ng/ml

          -  Use of Insulin Pump for diabetes treatment

          -  HbA1c > 12%

          -  History of Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA) defined by patient report or any emergency
             department visits or hospitalization for DKA

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Breastfeeding

          -  Known diagnosis of Cognitive Impairment or Dementia

          -  Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate < 45 ml/min/1.73m

          -  Congestive Heart Failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Class III or IV

          -  Active Malignancy

          -  Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection on treatment with medications

          -  Treatment with steroids (medication related diabetes)

          -  Treatment with antipsychotics (medication related diabetes)

          -  Abnormal baseline Complete Blood Count

          -  Liver Function tests > 3 times upper limit of normal, Viral Hepatitis, or Elevated
             Liver Function tests of Unclear Etiology

          -  Currently participating in a supervised diet program through Department of
             Endocrinology

          -  Currently participating in any other research study, such as 15-1134: Prospective
             Validation of Predictive Tool study through Department of Endocrinology

          -  Treatment with Coumadin (warfarin)
      
NCT02827708|Efficacy and Safety of Oral Semaglutide Versus Placebo in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes and Moderate Renal Impairment|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Male or female, age above or equal to 18 years at the time of signing informed
             consent

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus for at least 90 days prior to day of
             screening

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) of 7.0-9.5% (53-80 mmol/mol) (both inclusive)

          -  Moderate renal impairment defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate of 30-59
             mL/min/1.73 m^2 as per Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration formula

          -  Stable daily dose(s) within 90 days prior to the day of screening of any of the
             following treatment regimens:- 1-2 of the following oral anti-diabetic drugs: -
             Metformin equal or above 1500 mg or maximum tolerated dose documented in the subject
             medical record), - Sulfonylurea (equal or above half of the maximum approved dose
             according to local label or maximum tolerated dose as documented in subject medical
             record) - Basal insulin alone (20% change in total daily dose of insulin glargine,
             insulin detemir, insulin degludec or NPH insulin) or - Metformin (equal or above 1500
             mg or maximum tolerated dose documented in the subject medical record) in combination
             with basal insulin (20% change in total daily dose of insulin glargine, insulin
             detemir, insulin degludec or NPH insulin)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
             contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice).For certain
             specific countries: Additional specific requirements apply

          -  Any disorder, which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety
             or compliance with the protocol

          -  Family or personal history of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 or Medullary
             Thyroid Carcinoma

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery)

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction, stroke or hospitalisation for unstable
             angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the day of
             screening and randomisation

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association Class IV

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Subjects with alanine aminotransferase above 2.5 x upper normal limit

          -  Rapidly progressing renal disease (e.g. such as acute glomerulonephritis) as judged
             by the investigator or known nephrotic albuminuria (above 2200 mg/24 hours or above
             2200 mg/g)

          -  Use of systemic immunosuppressive treatment within 90 days prior to screening

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria in a period of 90 days before the day of screening.
             An exception is short-term insulin treatment for acute illness for a total of below
             or equal to 14 days

          -  Known hypoglycaemic unawareness and/or recurrent severe hypoglycaemic episodes as
             judged by the investigator

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within 90 days prior to
             randomisation

          -  History or presence of malignant neoplasms within the last 5 years (except basal and
             squamous cell skin cancer and carcinoma in situ)
      
NCT02366273|Diabetes and Psoriasis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patients with psoriasis

        Exclusion Criteria:
      
NCT02404870|Acute Effects of Canagliflozin, a Sodium Glucose Co-Transporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitor on Bone Metabolism in Healthy Volunteers|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

        We are targeting healthy greater than or equal to 18 years old, inclusive of all races and
        ethnicity within a BMI of 20 30 kg/m(2). Specifically, we have defined healthy to mean:
        normal fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c less than or equal to 6%, normal Hb, no
        glucosuria, normal renal function (based on normal serum creatinine + Cystatin C), urine
        albumin:creatinine ratio, protein:creatinine ratio, and GFR > 80 as calculated by the
        CKD-Epi equation and normal lab urinalysis.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        If you have any of the following health issues, you cannot participate in the study:

          -  Presence of heart disease, untreated high blood pressure (>140/90 mm Hg), orthostatic
             hypotension or symptomatic hypotension, cancer, diabetes, recurrent symptomatic
             hypoglycemia and /or history of recurrent genital or urinary tract infection, thyroid
             disease, or any other condition that affects bone health

          -  Past history of eating disorder or psychiatric disorders, including severe
             depression, anxiety, or psychosis or presently on treatment with medications for any
             of these conditions

          -  Taking certain medications, especially those that affect bone metabolism (e.g., high
             dose vitamin D [>1000 units daily] or calcium supplements [>800mg daily], high dose
             vitamin A [>20,000 units daily], phosphate binding antacids, calcitonin, calcitriol,
             growth hormone, or any anti-seizure medications for any reason including valproic
             acid, lamotrigine), certain medications for high blood pressure (diuretics), steroids
             including inhalers, diet/weight loss medications, or any other medications at the
             discretion of the principal investigator and/or study team

          -  Have started, increased or decreased calcium [>400mg daily] or vitamin D [>1000 units
             daily] supplements within 2 weeks of the study

          -  Dependence or regular use of alcohol (>2 drinks per day), tobacco (smoking or
             chewing), amphetamines, cocaine, heroin or marijuana over the past 6 months

          -  Volunteers will be excluded if they have abnormal blood concentrations of

               -  inorganic phosphate level (less than or equal to 2.5 mg/dl or greater than or
                  equal to 4.8 mg/dl),

               -  parathyroid hormone (PTH) (less than or equal to 60 pg/ml),

               -  creatinine (less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dl) or eGFR (< 80 ml/min/1.73sq.m),

               -  fasting glucose (greater than or equal to 100 mg/dl),

               -  hemoglobin (less than or equal to 11 g/dl),

               -  liver function tests (more than twice normal),

               -  testosterone (less than or equal to 260 ng/dl)

          -  Participation in a vigorous exercise program (>3h/day of vigorous activity)

          -  Consume more than 300 mg/day of caffeine (about two to three 8 fluid ounce servings)

          -  Have strict dietary concerns (e.g., vegan or kosher diet, multiple food allergies)

          -  Cannot commit to the research experience at the Clinical Research Center as required
             by the study timeline

          -  Have previous hypersensitivity reaction to canagliflozin (including but not limited
             to rash, raised red patches on your skin (hives), swelling of the face, lips, tongue,
             and throat that may cause difficulty in breathing or swallowing).

          -  Positive urine pregnancy test and/or planning to become pregnant during the course of
             the study.

          -  You are unwilling to use effective contraceptive methods for duration of study
             (hormonal or barrier.

          -  Irregular menstrual cycles
      
NCT02724566|Effect of Apelin on Insulin Sensitivity in Type 2 Diabetic Volunteers|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Clinical diagnosis of type2 diabetes

          -  Body Mass Index between 27 and 33 kg / cm ²

          -  HbA1c < 8.5%

          -  Non-pathological Electrocardiogram

          -  Heart rate between 50 and 80 beats per minute at rest.

          -  Complete Blood Count (CBC) with no significant anomaly in terms of the investigator..

          -  Serum electrolytes without clinically significant abnormalities in terms of the
             investigator.

          -  Liver function tests without clinically significant abnormalities in terms of the
             investigator

          -  Renal function tests without clinically significant abnormalities in terms of the
             investigator

          -  Good peripheral vein (forearm and back of the hand).

          -  Agreement to participate in the establishment of a serum bank.

          -  Ability to sign informed consent.

          -  Affiliation to a social security scheme

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Secondary prevention of cardio-vascular disease

          -  Insulin therapy or Glucagon Like Peptid 1 (GLP-1) analogs therapy in the 6 months
             before inclusion.

          -  Risk factor, treatment or electrocardiogram as recommended by International
             Conference on Harmonization (ICH) E14 "Clinical Evaluation of QT / QTc Interval
             Prolongation and Proarrhythmic Potential for Non-Antiarrhythmic Drugs"

          -  Repeated a QTc interval> 450 ms measurement

          -  Risk factor for torsade de pointes: myocardial infarction, hypokalemia, family
             history of long QT syndrome

          -  Personal history of cancer.

          -  Positive HIV serology.

          -  Hepatitis B serology positive.

          -  Positive hepatitis C serology.

          -  Cognitive impairment or mental illness (at the discretion of the investigator).

          -  Chronic excessive alcohol consumption (consumption > 30g/day or 210g/week).

          -  Person under judicial protection, guardianship.

          -  Subject with a resting systolic blood pressure greater than 140 mm Hg and diastolic
             blood pressure greater than 90 mmHg

          -  Smoking more than 10 cigaret per day and can not be interrupted for 24 hours.
      
NCT02773368|A Clinical Trial Comparing Glycaemic Control and Safety of Insulin Degludec/Liraglutide (IDegLira) Versus Insulin Glargine (IGlar) as add-on Therapy to SGLT2i in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, age at least 18 years at the time of signing informed consent

          -  Subjects diagnosed (clinically) with type 2 diabetes mellitus

          -  HbA1c 7.0-11.0% [53-97 mmol/mol] (both inclusive) by central laboratory analysis

          -  Body mass index (BMI) equal to or above 20 kg/m^2 and below 40 kg/m^2

          -  Insulin naïve subjects; however short term insulin treatment for a maximum of 14 days
             prior to the day of screening is allowed, as well as prior insulin treatment for
             gestational diabetes

          -  A stable daily dose for at least 90 days prior to the day of screening of any SGLT2i
             in monotherapy or in combination with metformin ± DPP4i ± pioglitazone. Use of
             pioglitazone is not allowed in subjects treated with dapagliflozin

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Receipt of any investigational medicinal product within 90 days prior to screening

          -  Use of any OADs (other than SGLT2i in monotherapy or in combination with metformin or
             DPP4i or pioglitazone as described in the inclusion criteria) within 90 days prior to
             the day of screening

          -  Use of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist (e.g., exenatide or
             liraglutide) within 90 days prior to the day of screening

          -  Acute decompensation of glycaemic control requiring immediate intensification of
             treatment to prevent severe metabolic dysregulation (e.g., diabetes ketoacidosis) in
             the previous 90 days prior to the day of the screening

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in NYHA (New York Heart Association) Class III
             or IV1

          -  Renal impairment estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 as per
             CKD-EPI (Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration)

          -  Impaired liver function, defined as ALT (alanine aminotransferase) equal to or above
             2.5 times upper normal limit at screening

          -  Known or suspected hypersensitivity to trial product(s) or related products
      
NCT03027219|Blood Flow Change After Free Flap Surgery in Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Plan to receive free flap transfer under general anesthesia

          2. Age: >=18 and <80 years old

          3. History of diabetes mellitus

          4. Administration of alprostadil during surgery

          5. Volunteer, who are provided written informed consent prior to study participation

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Refuse the participation of study

          2. >= American society of anesthesiologist physical status IV

          3. Use of any vasopressor or inotropic for hemodynamic instability before participation
             of study

          4. Inappropriate subjects who are identified by researchers
      
NCT03086330|Efficacy and Safety of Semaglutide Once-weekly Versus Placebo as add-on to SGLT-2i in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial

          -  Male or female, above or equal to 18 years at the time of signing informed consent.
             For Japan only: Male or female, age equal to or above 20 years at the time of signing
             informed consent

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus

          -  HbA1c of 7.0-10.0% (53-86 mmol/mol) (both inclusive)

          -  Stable dose of an SGLT-2 inhibitor as monotherapy or in combination (including
             fixed-dose drug combination) with a stable dose of metformin (equal to or above 1500
             mg or maximum tolerated dose) or a SU for at least 90 days prior to the day of
             screening. All medications in compliance with current local label

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
             contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice)

          -  Any disorder which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety or
             compliance with the protocol

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria within the past 90 days prior to the day of
             screening. However, short term insulin treatment for a maximum of 14 days prior to
             the day of screening is allowed

          -  Subjects with alanine aminotransferase above 2.5 x upper normal limit

          -  Family or personal history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 or medullary
             thyroid carcinoma. Family is defined as a first degree relative

          -  History or presence of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)

          -  History of diabetic ketoacidosis

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for unstable
             angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the day of
             screening

          -  Subjects presently classified as being in New York Heart Association Class IV

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening

          -  Renal impairment measured as estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate value of eGFR below
             60 ml/min/1.73 m^2 as defined by KDIGO 2012 classification using isotope dilution
             mass spectrometry for serum creatinine measured at screening

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within the past 90 days prior to
             randomisation

          -  Presence or history of malignant neoplasms within the past 5 years prior to the day
             of screening. Basal and squamous cell skin cancer and any carcinoma in-situ is
             allowed
      
NCT02620787|Tedizolid Tissue Penetration in Diabetic Patients With Wound Infections and Healthy Volunteers Via In Vivo Microdialysis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Experimental: Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes and a mild to moderate (Grade 2 or 3) wound
             infection of the lower limb

          -  Active Comparator: Healthy Adult Volunteer

        Exclusion Criteria:

        All Participants:

          -  Less than 18 years of age

          -  History of hypersensitivity to tedizolid or linezolid

          -  History of hypersensitivity to lidocaine or lidocaine derivatives

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding

          -  Presence of anemia, thrombocytopenia, or leukopenia as defined by hematocrit,
             platelet, or white blood cell count < 75% of the lower limit of normal

          -  Concomitant receipt of linezolid

          -  Any other reason felt by the investigator to potentially affect the outcomes of the
             study

        Experimental Group Only:

          -  No palpable pedal pulses present

          -  Participants likely to require multiple surgical interventions during the study
             period, which therefore could affect placement of the microdialysis catheter

        Active Comparator Group Only:

          -  Positive urine drug screen (cocaine, tetrahydrocannabinol, opiates, benzodiazepines,
             and amphetamines).

          -  History of regular alcohol consumption exceeding 7 drinks/week for females or 14
             drinks/week for men (1 drink = 5 ounces of wine or 12 ounces of beer or 1.5 ounces of
             hard liquor) within 6 months of screening.

          -  Use of tobacco- or nicotine-containing products in excess of the equivalence of 5
             cigarettes per day.

          -  Use of prescription or nonprescription drugs, vitamins, or dietary supplements within
             7 days or 5 half-lives (whichever is longer) prior to the first dose of study
             medication, with the exception of acetaminophen at doses of ≤ 1 g/day. Herbal
             supplements, hormonal methods of contraception (including oral and transdermal
             contraceptives, injectable progesterone, progestin subdermal implants,
             progesterone-releasing intrauterine devices (IUDs), postcoital contraceptive
             methods), and hormone replacement therapy must be discontinued at least 14 days prior
             to the first dose of study medication. Depo-Provera® must be discontinued at least 6
             months prior to the first dose of study medication.
      
NCT02621008|Mobile Phone-based Intervention for Promoting Healthy Habits and Weight Loss|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Be 18 years of age or older and

          -  have a body mass index (BMI) of at least 24 kg/m2 (22 kg/m2 if Asian) and

          -  be able to engage in light physical activity

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  no Internet access or use of iOS

          -  taking more than three antihypertensive or diabetes drugs; meeting the DSM-5 criteria
             for an eating disorder

          -  having a disability that prevents or hinders exercise and physical activity

          -  receiving any treatment for weight loss elsewhere.
      
NCT02790957|Plerixafor in Diabetic Wound Healing|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 or type 2 diabetes

          -  Men of 18-85 years or post-menopausal women <85 years of age

          -  Presence of neuroischemic or ischemic diabetic wound(s) of the leg(s) / foot(s) Texas
             grade 3 or 4, with or without infection.

          -  No further indication to surgical or endovascular revascularization or no improvement
             at least 1 month after revascularization.

          -  Ability to provide informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Sepsis

          -  Dialysis or severe chronic kidney disease (eGFR <20ml/min/1.73 mq)

          -  Advanced liver disease (defined as cirrhosis or transaminases >3 times ULN)

          -  Clinically relevant abnormalities in white blood cell counts at baseline.

          -  Hematologic disorders (lymphoma, myeloma, acute or chronic leukemia, chronic
             myeloproliferative disorders)

          -  Recent (within 1 month) surgical or endovascular revascularization

          -  Known or highly suspected solid cancer

          -  Women with childbearing potential

          -  Known hypersensitivity to Mozobil (Plerixafor or its components)

          -  Inability to provide informed consent
      
NCT03076528|An Innovative Virtually Supervised Exercise for Dialysis Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults of 50 years or older, who are undergoing hemodialysis process

          -  Patients in diabetes

          -  Ability to provide consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Non-ambulatory patients (unable to walk independently a distance of 20m with or
             without existence)

          -  Active foot ulcer

          -  Major foot amputation

          -  Charcot neuroarthropathy

          -  Major hearing/vision impaired

          -  Any patient with changes in psychotropic or sleep medications in the last 6 weeks

          -  Patients concurrently participating in another exercise training

          -  Patients with any clinically significant medical or psychiatric condition, or
             laboratory abnormality
      
NCT02328235|Effect of High Fat Diet on Muscle Metabolism|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Males, age 18-40 years; BMI between 20 and 30 kg/m2. Weight stable for previous 6
             months (± 2.0kg).

        Sedentary to recreationally active (≤ 3 days, 20 min/day of walking type exercise, no
        planned exercise other than leisure walking for transportation purposes).

        Verbal and written informed consent

        non-smoking

        Approved for participation by Medical Director (Jose Rivero, M.D.)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  1. Past or current ischemic heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, endocrine or
             metabolic disease, neurological disease, or hematological-oncological disease

             2. Family history of diabetes

             3. BMI > 30 kg/m2, blood pressure > 140/90 mmHg or antihypertensive medications,
             fasting glucose > 100 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol > 130 mg/dl, total cholesterol > 200
             mg/dl, triglycerides > 250 mg/dl.

             4. Verbal and written informed consent

             4. Smoking, alcohol consumption > 2 servings/d, or taking medications (including but
             not limited to statins or other drugs with anti-inflammatory actions) or antioxidant
             vitamins or supplements, or know to affect carbohydrate or lipid metabolism.

             5. Total daily dietary fat consumption ≥ 35% and/or saturated fat consumption of ≥
             15%.
      
NCT02356757|Preventing Amputations by Tailored Risk-based Intervention to Optimize Therapy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults with diabetes and PAVE score 1, 2 or 3, drug therapy for > 6 months

          -  An available phone

          -  At least 2 primary care visits in the previous 1.5 years at the recruitment site

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with acute CVD events < 3 months ago

          -  86 poor estimated short-term survival (< 1 year)

          -  Recent major surgery (< 3 months)

          -  Inability to exercise

          -  Prior toe or foot amputation

          -  Prior foot ulcer

          -  Temporary residence in the area

          -  Inability to provide consent will be excluded
      
NCT03061227|Characterization of Metabolic and Brain Effects of Rising Glucagon During an Oral Glucose Challenge|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI 18.5- 29.9 kg/m2

          -  written informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current

               1. febrile infection with temperatures> 38.5 ° C in the last 14 days

               2. Blood donation within the last 12 weeks Pre-study Inclusion

          -  Chronic diseases:

               1. Diabetes mellitus

               2. Known liver diseases (hepatitisB/C, hemochromatosis, NASH)

               3. Chronic inflammatory diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative
                  colitis) chronic renal insufficiency

               4. Cancer (known malignant disease)

               5. psychiatric diagnoses (bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, psychoses, depression,
                  agoraphobia)

               6. Persons with non-removable metal parts, e.g:

                    -  pacemaker

                    -  artificial heart valves

                    -  metal prostheses

                    -  implanted magnetic metal parts (screws, plates of operations)

                    -  spiral

                    -  metal slivers / garnet splinters

                    -  fixed braces

                    -  Acupuncture needle

                    -  Insulin pump

                    -  totally implantable venous access device (port)

                    -  tattoos, metallic eye shadows

               7. Persons with impaired sensitivity and / or increased sensitivity to heating of
                  the body

               8. Medical history of venous thromboembolism

               9. alcohol consumption of more than 50g / day

              10. In physical examination:

                  blood pressure > 160/100 mmHg pathologic cardiac murmurs (diastolic or systolic
                  louder than 2/6)

              11. in the blood test: fasting glucose ≥ 125 mg/dl or HbA1c ≥ 6.5% AST or ALT> 2.5x
                  upper limit of the reference range (> 125 U/l) Hb <12 g/dl C reactive protein
                  (CRP) > 5 mg / dL or leukocytes> 15000/μl
      
NCT02620774|Tissue Penetration of Ceftolozane/Tazobactam in Diabetic Patients With Lower Limb Infections|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Experimental: Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes and a mild to moderate (Grade 2 or 3) wound
             infection of the lower limb

          -  Active Comparator: Healthy Adult Volunteer

        Exclusion Criteria:

        All Participants:

          -  Less than 18 years of age

          -  History of hypersensitivity to ceftolozane/tazobactam, piperacillin/tazobactam, or
             any β-lactam antibiotic

          -  History of hypersensitivity to lidocaine or lidocaine derivatives

          -  Females who are pregnant or breastfeeding

          -  Concomitant receipt of any β-lactams antibiotic

          -  Concomitant receipt of probenecid

          -  Reduced kidney function defined as creatinine clearance of ≤ 50 mL/min

          -  Any other reason felt by the investigator to potentially affect the outcomes of the
             study

        Experimental Group Only:

          -  No palpable pedal pulses present

          -  Participants likely to require multiple surgical interventions during the study
             period, which therefore could affect placement of the microdialysis catheter

        Active Comparator Group Only:

          -  Positive urine drug screen (cocaine, tetrahydrocannabinol, opiates, benzodiazepines,
             and amphetamines)

          -  History of regular alcohol consumption exceeding 7 drinks/week for females or 14
             drinks/week for men (1 drink = 5 ounces of wine or 12 ounces of beer or 1.5 ounces of
             hard liquor) within 6 months of screening.

          -  Use of tobacco- or nicotine-containing products in excess of the equivalence of 5
             cigarettes per day.

          -  Use of prescription or nonprescription drugs, vitamins, or dietary supplements within
             7 days or 5 half-lives (whichever is longer) prior to the first dose of study
             medication, with the exception of acetaminophen at doses of ≤ 1 g/day. Herbal
             supplements, hormonal methods of contraception (including oral and transdermal
             contraceptives, injectable progesterone, progestin subdermal implants,
             progesterone-releasing intrauterine devices (IUDs), postcoital contraceptive
             methods), and hormone replacement therapy must be discontinued at least 14 days prior
             to the first dose of study medication. Depo-Provera® must be discontinued at least 6
             months prior to the first dose of study medication.
      
NCT02742597|Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity - Ontario|
        For Quantitative (Study 2.2):

        Inclusion Criteria for Patients:

          -  3+ Chronic Conditions

          -  18 to 80 years of age

          -  Eligible for TIP/IMPACT Plus program

          -  Must live in catchment area for TIP/IMPACT Plus program (Toronto, Ontario, Canada)

        Exclusion Criteria for Patients:

          -  Unable to reasonably respond to questionnaires or provide informed consent (ie.
             cognitive impairment or language barrier)

          -  Deemed by provider to be too fragile

        For Qualitative (Study 2.1):

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Decision Makers: Responsible for policy and financial decisions related to the TIP /
             IMPACT Plus program

          -  TIP / IMPACT Providers: Providers that have delivered the TIP / IMPACT Plus
             intervention to at least one patient, including pharmacist, nurse, nurse
             practitioner, physiotherapist, social worker, dietitian, occupational therapist,
             personal care worker / home care coordinator

          -  Family Physicians / Specialists: Those that take part in the TIP / IMPACT Plus
             intervention, including internist, psychiatrist, and family physician

          -  Patients: Need to meet the inclusion criteria of the TIP / IMPACT Plus program, 18 to
             80 years of age, 3+ chronic conditions, and have received the intervention a minimum
             of 4 months prior to the qualitative interview

          -  Family and Caregivers: Need to be a family member or caregiver of a TIP / IMPACT Plus
             patient that has received the intervention a minimum of 4 months prior to the
             qualitative interview.

          -  Referral Provider: Emergency Department doctor, nurse practitioner, CCAC coordinator
             or representative community family doctor that has referred patients to the TIP /
             IMPACT Plus program.

        Exclusion criteria:

          -  Decision Makers that are not knowledgeable about or involved with the TIP / IMPACT
             Plus program

          -  Providers/Family Physicians/Specialists that have not ever referred to or taken part
             in a TIP / IMPACT Plus intervention or have not been active with the program in the
             last year

          -  Family and Caregivers of Patients or Patients themselves that haven't yet received
             the TIP / IMPACT Plus intervention or those that received the intervention within the
             last 4 months
      
NCT03105011|Utilizing Off-the-shelf Technology to Improve Diabetes Management in a Rural Population|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age: 18-70 years of age

          2. Gender: Any gender

          3. Language: patients must use English as primary language

          4. Patient must be ambulatory patients at Mercy Family Practice Clinic in Rolla,
             Missouri

          5. Patient must have access to touch tone telephone or mobile phone with texting
             capability

          6. Patient must have documented type 2 diabetes mellitus with a treatment plan that
             includes measuring pre-prandial blood glucose levels each morning.

          7. HgbA1c between 7 and 9%

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients that are identified by clinic staff who have demonstrated noncompliance

          -  Lack of access to mobile or landline telephone

          -  Hospitalized patients
      
NCT02914730|Insulin Dosing Practices in Persons With Diabetes on Multiple Daily Injections|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes or insulin-requiring Type 2 diabetes

          -  > 2 insulin injections

          -  Age 18-35 or older than 65 years

          -  Use of glargine insulin as basal insulin

          -  Stable insulin doses for past 3 months

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Previous tape/adhesive allergies with CGM sensors

          -  Visual or cognitive impairment with inability to self-administer insulin
      
NCT03080337|Group Diabetes Prenatal Care|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Clinically confirmed viable pregnancy at the time of enrollment.

          -  Able to provide consent for participation.

          -  Diabetes diagnosed prior to 12 weeks gestation.

          -  Initiation of care by 20 weeks gestation.

          -  Age 18 years or older.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Not planning to deliver at UnityPoint Health- Meriter Hospital.
      
NCT02673203|Investigation Into the Effects of Blood Glucose Levels Upon Eating Behavior in Lean and Obese Non-diabetic and Diabetic Subjects|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  A1c < 10.5 %

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI <18 (no upper limit),

          -  Creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL,

          -  Hgb < 10 mg/dL,

          -  ALT > 2.5 X ULN,

          -  untreated thyroid disease,

          -  uncontrolled hypertension,

          -  known neurological disorders,

          -  untreated psychiatric disorders,

          -  use of antidepressants and psychiatric medications,

          -  use of weight loss medications in the 6 months prior to the study,

          -  malignancy,

          -  smoking,

          -  current or recent steroid use in last 3 months,

          -  history of current illicit drug use;

          -  for women: pregnancy, or breastfeeding.
      
NCT02469558|Probiotics in Diabesity: A Pilot Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Participant is willing and able to give informed consent for participation in the
             study.

          -  Age above 18 years

          -  Type 2 diabetes

          -  BMI 30-40 kg/m²

          -  HbA1c ≥ 6.5% (48 mmol/mol)

          -  Stable diabetes therapy over 6 months

          -  Person commits to the need for long-term follow-up

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes mellitus

          -  Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY)

          -  Secondary diabetes due to a specific disease or glucocorticoid therapy

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Hypothalamic cause of obesity, Cushing syndrome

          -  Major psychiatric diseases including diagnosed eating disorders, history of drug or
             alcohol abuse

          -  History of bariatric surgery

          -  Use of probiotics (other than the study product)

          -  Antibiotic therapy within the last 4 weeks before inclusion

          -  Inflammatory bowel disease

          -  Pancreatitis

          -  Chronic non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment

          -  glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist therapy or acarbose therapy

          -  Recent (less than 12 weeks) acute myocardial infarction or decompensated heart
             failure

          -  Recent (less than 12 weeks) stroke

          -  Known malignancy or any other condition or circumstance, which, in the opinion of the
             investigator, would affect the patient's ability to participate in the protocol
      
NCT02518581|Validation of the Doubly Labelled Water Method in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Signed informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities.

          2. Stable weight +/- 5% for at least 3 months prior screening visit.

          3. Male or female subject, 18-64 years of age, both inclusive.

          4. Body Mass Index (BMI) >= 25 kg/m2.

          5. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (as diagnosed clinically) ≥ 12 months.

          6. HbA1c <= 9 % at screening visit.

          7. Stable treatment (>= 3 month) with

               -  Oral antidiabetics (OADs) (except OADs that are associated with a reduction in
                  body weight (α-glucosidase inhibitors, sodium glucose transporter 2-inhibitors
                  (SGLT2))) and/or

               -  basal insulin injections and/or

               -  a dietary regimen. Subjects on a basal-bolus insulin regimen will not be
                  enrolled.

          8. Considered generally healthy (apart from type 2 diabetes mellitus and with the
             exception of conditions associated with diabetes mellitus or the metabolic syndrome,
             such as dyslipidaemia and hypertension) upon completion of medical history, physical
             examination, vital signs, and analysis of laboratory safety variables, as judged by
             the Investigator.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Clinical significant acute illness within 2 weeks before study procedures, including
             severe infections, as judged by the Investigator.

          2. Receipt of any investigational medicinal product within 3 months before trial related
             procedures.

          3. Mental incapacity or language barriers which preclude adequate understanding or
             cooperation, unwillingness to participate in the trial, known or suspected not to
             comply with study directives or not to be reliable or trustworthy, or subjects who in
             the opinion of their general practitioner or the Investigator should not participate
             in the trial.

          4. Use of diuretics.

          5. Intake of any other drug or dietary supplement that in the opinion of the
             Investigator may impair validity of energy expenditure assessments.

          6. Clinically significant abnormal biochemistry screening tests, as judged by the
             Investigator. In particular, elevated liver enzymes (AST or ALT > 3 times the upper
             limit of normal) or impaired renal function with an estimated Glomerular Filtration
             Rate (eGFR; estimate after CKD-EP) < 60 ml/min.

          7. Clinically significant abnormal electrocardiogram (ECG) findings at screening, as
             judged by the Investigator.

          8. Positive alcohol breath test at screening visit.

          9. Significant history of alcoholism or drug abuse as judged by the Investigator or
             consuming more than 21 units of alcohol per week (one unit of alcohol equals about
             330 ml of beer, one glass of wine of 120 ml, or 40 ml spirits).

         10. Smoker (defined as a subject who is smoking more than 5 cigarettes or the equivalent
             per day) who is not able or willing to refrain from smoking and use of nicotine
             substitute products during the study.

         11. Excessive consumption of coffee and tea (i.e. more than 5 cups/day), chocolate or
             beverages such as cola containing methylxanthine (caffeine, theophylline or
             theobromine) as judged by the investigator.

         12. Females of childbearing potential who are pregnant, breast-feeding or intend to
             become pregnant or are not using adequate contraceptive methods (adequate
             contraceptive measures include surgical sterilisation, hormonal intrauterine devices
             (coil), oral hormonal contraceptives, sexual abstinence or a surgically sterilised
             partner).

         13. Type 1 diabetes mellitus, diabetes resulting from pancreatic injury, or secondary
             forms of diabetes, e.g., acromegaly or Cushing's syndrome.

         14. History of hyperosmolar crisis, diabetic coma, or severe hypoglycemia within the last
             3 months prior to trial examinations.

         15. Use of weight-loss medication or any non-permitted antidiabetic medication that is
             associated with a reduction in body weight (α-glucosidase inhibitors,
             SGLT2-inhibitors) within 3 months before trial examination.

         16. Use of injectable anti-diabetic therapy (other than insulin), e.g. GLP-1 receptor
             agonists (glucagon-like peptide), within 3 months prior to screening.

         17. Steroid therapy other than topical application.
      
NCT02682342|Hyperglycemia and Mitochondrial Function in The Endothelium of Humans|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Adult age 21 to 70

          2. No evidence of metabolic syndrome or diabetes, hypertension (BP≥140/90), or high
             cholesterol (LDL≥160) at the time of screening.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. History of stroke, peripheral arterial disease, or coronary artery disease (as
             defined by the presence of at least one coronary stenosis ≥ 40% on angiography or by
             confirmed history of myocardial infarction by standard criteria).

          2. History of bleeding disorders.

          3. Evidence of other evident major illness including chronic renal insufficiency (plasma
             creatinine > 1.4 for women or 1.5 for men), liver disease (liver enzymes greater than
             2.5 x normal), and cancer

          4. currently undergoing therapy or had therapy for cancer within 1 year of enrollment.

          5. Pregnancy as determined by urinary human chorionic gonadotropin beta test

          6. Thienopyridine, anti-thrombin/Xa, or warfarin therapy at time of screening

          7. On medication for cholesterol or blood pressure
      
NCT03089463|Foot Assessment in People With Diabetes: A Quantitative Diagnostic Approach|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 OR 2 diabetes

          -  Over 18

          -  English speaking

          -  Ability to walk unaided over 5m

          -  Diabetic neuropathy as defined by a 10g monofilament test

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Lower limb surgery (amputation)

          -  Active ulcers

          -  History of neurological disorders (apart from neuropathy)

          -  Orthopaedic problems

          -  Systemic disease affecting mobility or leading to chronic inflammation of any lower
             limb joint.

          -  Visual impairment leading to difficulties in walking

          -  Charcot foot

          -  Unable to walk unaided for 5m
      
NCT03106727|Evaluating the Impact of a Community Health Worker Program in Neno, Malawi|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Resident of one of the 11 catchment areas

          -  Seeks routine health care from a health facility in Neno District

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Not a resident and/or does not reside predominantly in Neno District
      
NCT02898714|Flash Glucose Monitoring Study for Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Signed informed consent

          -  >= 4 years

          -  Using flash glucose monitoring

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Doesn't want ot sign the nformed consent

          -  < 4 years

          -  Not using flash glucose monitoring
      
NCT02390973|Surgery Versus Best Medical Management for the Long Term Remission of Type 2 Diabetes and Related Diseases (REMISSION)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI ≥ 35

          -  type 2 diabetes

          -  HbA1c ≥ 6,5 % or fasting glycemia ≥7mmol/l or non-fasting glycemia ≥11mmol/l

          -  able to consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  pregnancy

          -  past esophageal, gastric or bariatric surgery

          -  irritable bowel, unexplained intermittent vomiting, severe abdominal pain, chronic
             diarrhea or constipation

          -  history of gastric or duodenal ulcers

          -  pre-operatory hypoalbuminemy

          -  history of renal, hepatic, cardiac or pulmonary severe disease

          -  taken of corticosteroid in the last month

          -  evidence of psycological problem that may affect the capacity to understand the
             project and to comply with the medical recommandations

          -  history of drug use or alcool abuse in the last 12 months

          -  history of gastro-intestinal inflammatory diseases
      
NCT02609815|Initial Combination of Gemigliptin and Metformin on Microbiota Change|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes

          -  Drug naive (no anti-diabetic medication within 6 weeks)

          -  HbA1c >= 7.5%

          -  BMI >= 25.0 kg/m2

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes

          -  DKA, HHS

          -  history of hypersensitivity to sulphonylurea, metformin or DPP-4 inhibitor

          -  Gestational diabetes mellitus

          -  Serum Cr >1.5 mg/dL (male), >1.4mg/dL (female)

          -  Abnormal liver function test

          -  Anti-obesity medication within 3 months

          -  Gastrointestinal motility drug, laxatives within 3 months

          -  History of major gastrointestinal surgery
      
NCT02898155|Potentially Avoidable Hospitalisation in France|
        Inclusion criteria:

          -  year 2014

          -  LRMP region

          -  Hospital admission in any public or private hospital

        Exclusion criteria:
      
NCT02925156|Modeling the Epidemiologic Transition Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Identify as African American or Black

          -  Age 18-50

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy, nursing, or planning to become pregnant

          -  Movement disorders or other disability that limits mobility
      
NCT02670915|Efficacy and Safety of Faster-acting Insulin Aspart Compared to NovoRapid® Both in Combination With Insulin Degludec in Children and Adolescents With Type 1 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, 1 year above or equal to age below 18 years at the time of signing
             informed consent and below 18 years at the time of randomisation

          -  Diagnosed with type 1 diabetes mellitus (based on clinical judgement and supported by
             laboratory analysis as per local guidelines)

          -  Ongoing daily treatment with a basal-bolus insulin regimen using basal insulin
             analogue or NPH insulin for at least 90 days prior to the screening visit

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) below or equal 9.5% (80 mmol/mol) analysed by the
             central laboratory at the screening visit

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  More than one episode of diabetic ketoacidosis requiring hospitalisation within the
             last 90 days prior to the screening visit

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria in a period of 90 days before screening
      
NCT02739217|Safety and Tolerability of PBI-4050 and Its Effects on the Biomarkers in Subjects With Alström Syndrome|
        Inclusion Criteria :

          -  Subject is 16 years of age or older at screening.

          -  Subject has signed informed consent.

          -  Subject has a documented diagnosis of Alström syndrome

          -  Subject on diabetes treatment has been receiving the same antidiabetic agent(s) for a
             minimum of 1 month before screening.

          -  Subject is able and willing to self-monitor blood glucose level at home or can obtain
             adequate assistance from care givers.

          -  Subject has a body mass index (BMI) of at least 25 kg/m2 at screening.

          -  Female subjects of childbearing potential must have a negative serum pregnancy test
             at screening and agree to use adequate birth control from screening throughout the
             study and for 30 days after the last Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP)
             administration.

          -  If a male subject has not been vasectomized at least 6 months before screening and
             partners with a woman of childbearing potential, he must be willing to use an
             acceptable contraceptive method throughout the study and for 30 days after the last
             IMP administration.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Subject has recent or on-going infection requiring systemic treatment with an
             anti-infective agent within 30 days before screening.

          -  Subject has had at least two documented episodes of severe hypoglycaemia within 12
             months before screening

          -  Subject has uncontrolled hypertension with BP > 170/100 mmHg as determined at
             screening.

          -  Subject has alanine transaminase (ALT) or aspartate transaminase (AST) level ≥ 5 ×
             upper limit of normal (ULN) at screening.

          -  Subject is currently using weight loss medications at screening. Subjects may be
             re-screened after stopping the weight loss medication for a period of at least 5
             half-lives.

          -  Subject has used any strong inducer or inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A isozyme
             within 30 days prior to the first study drug administration.

          -  Subject has a history of chronic alcohol or other substance abuse as determined at
             screening.

          -  Woman who is pregnant, breast-feeding, or planning a pregnancy during the course of
             the study as determined at screening.

          -  Subject has any condition that, in the investigator's opinion, is likely to interfere
             with study conduct and compliance
      
NCT02813668|Worksite Lifestyle Program for Reducing Diabetes and Cardiovascular Risk in India|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI ≥23 kg/m2 and/or waist circumference ≥90 cm for men and ≥80 cm for women

          -  Prediabetic (HbA1c of 5.7-6.4%) or diabetic (HbA1c≥6.5%)

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Currently taking any diabetes medications

          -  Pregnant or breastfeeding

          -  History of heart disease, current serious illness, or conditions which would impede
             participation in an unsupervised physical activity and diet change program
      
NCT02952352|Nxstan: A Culturally Tailored Intervention to Prevent Diabetes in American Indian Men|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Must be male and self-reported American Indian; Reside in or near Colville tribe;
             ages 21-65, A BMI ≥25 kg/m2 and/or a waist circumference >90 cm for men; no prior
             diabetes diagnosis; No history of heart disease, serious illness, cancer diagnosis in
             the last five years, or other conditions that may impede or prohibit participation;
             and, willingness to consent to randomization

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Females, under 18 years old or older than 65 years
      
NCT03065140|Muscle Fat Compartments and Turnover as Determinant of Insulin Sensitivity|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetic patients, aged between 20-65, diagnosed as per WHO criteria, diet
             controlled or diet and any of the following oral hypoglycemics: metformin,
             sulphonylureas, glitazones, gliptins, acarbose, but not requiring insulin for
             controlling of blood glucose.

          -  Trained, athletic healthy controls, aged 18 and over.

          -  Participant who is willing and able to give informed consent for participation in the
             study.

          -  Able to perform exercise testing.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Any history of known coronary artery disease.

          -  Other endocrine conditions

          -  Impaired renal function defined as eGFR<60mls/min/1.73m2

          -  Known resting/24 hour BP >160/100mmHg

          -  Participants on ACE inhibitors

          -  Participants on PPAR agonists

          -  Participants on omega 3 fatty acids

          -  The existence of any medical or surgical condition that in the judgement of the
             investigators may interfere with the exercise regime, FA metabolism or may compromise
             the safety of the subject

          -  Presence of other significant concomitant heart diseases such as ischaemic, valvular,
             pericardial heart disease or cardiomyopathy, skeletal muscle disorders

          -  Healthy volunteers that are on any chronic medication that in the judgment of the
             investigators is likely to affect the outcome of the study

          -  Significant asthma

          -  Significant pulmonary disease

          -  Participants unable to cycle on the ergometer

          -  Unable to perform exercise testing (e.g. prosthetic limbs)
      
NCT02454153|Hyperglycemic Profiles in Obstructive Sleep Apnea: Effects of PAP Therapy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetics

          -  Age > 21 and ≤ 75 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Inability to consent or commit to the required visits

          -  Use of insulin or other injections for diabetes

          -  Weight change of 10% in last six months

          -  Use of oral steroids in the last six months

          -  Pulmonary disease (i.e., COPD)

          -  Renal or hepatic insufficiency

          -  Recent MI or stroke (< 3 months)

          -  Sleep-related hypoventilation

          -  Obesity-hypoventilation syndrome

          -  Morbid Obesity

          -  Occupation as a commercial driver or operator of heavy machinery

          -  Active substance use

          -  Untreated thyroid disease

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Any history of seizures or other neurologic disease

          -  Poor sleep hygiene or sleep disorder other than sleep apnea

          -  Central sleep apnea

          -  Variants of obstructive sleep apnea (e.g., REM-related OSA)

          -  Participants not suitable for the study based on the clinical judgment

          -  Use of any investigational drug within the past 30 days

          -  Participating in another study
      
NCT02746861|Peer-Supported Diabetes Self-Management Support|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes

          -  HbA1c>9%

          -  African American or Hispanic ethnicity
      
NCT02563457|Efficacy of Periodontal Treatment on Glycaemic Control in Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  patient suffering from a periodontitis

          -  patient with : 7,0% < Hemoglobin A1c < 9,5%

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  If an hospitalization is planned within the next 4 months

          -  Patient suffering from chronic infectious pathology (HIV, hepatitis C virus,
             hepatitis B virus, mononucleosis)

          -  Renal insufficiency

          -  Contra indication for amoxicilline or clindamycin

          -  Antithrombotic treatment

          -  Liver disease
      
NCT02449850|Preventing Atopic Dermatitis and ALLergies in Children|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Ante-natal inclusion, step 1: All mothers to-be at 18 weeks ultrasound investigation
        with sufficient language skills (Norwegian or Swedish), gestational age: at least 16-22
        weeks.

        1. Exclusion: Plans to move further than reasonable travel distance from any of the
        participating hospitals within the first year of the offspring's life.

        1. Inclusion of the child, step 2: Live-born babies of gestational age 35.0 weeks or more
        (including multiple pregnancies), maternal/parental willingness to participate in the
        study

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Exclusion criteria child: 1) severe neonatal cardiac, pulmonary, neurologic, dermatologic
        disease or other disease that may influence the outcomes 2), plans to move further than
        reasonable travel distance away from any of the participating hospitals within the first
        nine months of life.

        3) Non-willingness to participate, 4) More than two foetuses
      
NCT02491528|A Phase III Study of Insulin Aspart Injection to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients were diagnosed with diabetes；

          -  BMI≤35.0 kg/m2；

          -  Insulin therapy for at least 3 months before recruitment；

          -  HbA1c7~13%

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients to study drug allergy；

          -  to Liver and kidney impairment；

          -  Liver and kidney impairment；

          -  used systemic steroid treatment in past 2 months .
      
NCT02572414|Men Together Making a Difference: Health Promotion for Black Men|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 40 years or older

          -  Self-identify as Black or African American

          -  Receiving ART for HIV

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Blood pressure of 180/110 mm Hg or higher

          -  Plan to relocate beyond a reasonable distance from the study in the next 18 months or
             do not have an address where they can receive mail

          -  Participated in any health promotion intervention trial targeting physical activity,
             diet, or prostate or colon cancer screening in the past 12 months.
      
NCT02610088|Effect of Dapagliflozin on Vascular Functions in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Compared to Gliclazide|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes with HbA1c ≥ 7.5% at screening visit

          -  Male or female between 40 and 70 years of age

          -  Patients taking metformin (≥ 1000 mg or maximum tolerated dose) for more than 3
             months

          -  BMI ≥23 kg/m²

          -  Estimated GFR ≥ 60 ml/min/1.73m²

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with acute coronary syndrome within 3 months prior to screening visit

          -  Pregnant or breast feeding women or reproductive-age women who refuse contraception

          -  Type 1 diabetes, gestational diabetes, or diabetes with secondary cause

          -  Chronic hepatitis B or C (except healthy carrier of HBV), liver disease (AST/ALT >
             3-fold the upper limit of normal)

          -  Cancer within 5 years (except squamous cell cancer, cervical cancer, thyroid cancer
             with appropriate treatment) except thyroid cancer or carcinoma in situ

          -  Other clinical trial within 30 days

          -  Alcohol abuse

          -  Contraindication to SGLT2 inhibitors or sulfonylurea
      
NCT02982798|The PK Characteristics of the Co-administration of Metformin SR and Rosuvastatin and JLP-1310 in Healthy Male Volunteers|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Healthy male volunteer, age is over 19 years Body weight is over 55kg, The result of
             Body Mass Index(BMI) is not less than 17.5 kg/m2 , no more than 30.5 kg/m2

          -  Subject who has the ability to comprehend the study objectives, contents and the
             property of the study drug before participating in the trial

          -  Subject who has the ability and willingness to participate the whole period of trial

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Presence of medical history or a concurrent disease that may interfere with treatment
             and safety assessment or completion of this clinical study, including clinically
             significant disorders in kidney, liver, cardiovascular system, respiratory system,
             endocrine system, or neuropsychiatric system.

          -  Subjects who are allergic to investigational drug.

          -  Subjects who have a medical history which can affect the clinical trial.

          -  Systolic BP > 140mmHG or Diastolic BP > 90mmHg)

          -  AST or ALT > X 2 UNL

          -  History of drug abuse or positive drug screening.

          -  Participation in other drug studies within 3 months prior to the drug administration.

          -  Whole blood donation within 60 days, blood component donation within 30 days or who
             got transfusion within 30days.
      
NCT02712632|Genetics of Diabetes Audit and Research in Tayside and Scotland|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults aged 16 and over.

          -  Diagnosis of diabetes within the past 2 years.

          -  Either Non-Type 1 diabetes controlled by diet only with an HbA1c ≥ 48; or Type 1
             diabetes

          -  Able to give informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with non-type 1 diabetes who have had previous treatment with insulin or an
             OHA or GLP-1.
      
NCT02504762|HYbrid CoronAry Revascularization in DiabeticS|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Male or Female, aged 18 years or older;

          2. Diabetes Mellitus (Type 1 or Type 2) undergoing treatment;

          3. Multivessel disease involving the LAD + at least one other coronary territory
             (stenosis ≥ 70% in a 1.5 mm artery) in a patient referred for cCABG;

          4. Angiographic lesion characteristics amenable to both PCI/DES and MICS CABG;

          5. Indication for revascularization based upon objective ischemia.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Severe congestive heart failure (class III or IV NYHA) at enrollment;

          2. Left ventricular ejection fraction less than 20%;

          3. Prior CABG surgery;

          4. Prior heart valve surgery;

          5. Prior PCI within the previous 6 months;

          6. Previous tuberculosis or trauma to the chest that may have caused adhesions or LITA
             damage;

          7. Previous stroke within 6 months or patients with stroke at more than 6 months with
             significant residual neurologic involvement, as reflected by a Rankin Score > 1;

          8. Prior history of significant bleeding that might be expected to recur with MICS CABG
             or PCI/DES related anticoagulation;

          9. STEMI or Q-wave MI within 72 hours prior to enrollment;

         10. Planned simultaneous surgical procedure unrelated to coronary revascularization (e.g.
             valve repair/replacement, aneurysmectomy, carotid endarterectomy or carotid
             stenting);

         11. Contraindication to either cCABG, MICS CABG, or PCI/DES because of a coexisting
             clinical condition;

         12. Significant leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, or known bleeding
             diathesis;

         13. Intolerance or contraindication to aspirin or both clopidogrel and ticagrelor;

         14. Dementia with a Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score of < 20;

         15. Extra-cardiac illness that is expected to limit survival to less than 5 years;

         16. Suspected pregnancy. A pregnancy test (urine or serum) will be administered to all
             women not clearly menopausal;

         17. Concurrent enrollment in another clinical trial;

         18. Geographic inaccessibility for the follow-up visits required by protocol.
      
NCT02449187|Investigate the Effect of Food on the Pharmacokinetics of JLP-1310 in Healthy Male Volunteers|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Healthy male volunteer, age is over 19 years

          2. Body weight is over 55kg, The result of Body Mass Index(BMI) is not less than 17.5
             kg/m2 , no more than 30.5 kg/m2

          3. Subject who has the ability to comprehend the study objectives, contents and the
             property of the study drug before participating in the trial

          4. Subject who has the ability and willingness to participate the whole period of trial

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Presence of medical history or a concurrent disease that may interfere with treatment
             and safety assessment or completion of this clinical study, including clinically
             significant disorders in kidney, liver, cardiovascular system, respiratory system,
             endocrine system, or neuropsychiatric system.

          2. Subjects who are allergic to investigational drug.

          3. Subjects who have a medical history which can affect the clinical trial.

          4. Hypertension(Systolic BP ≥ 140mmHG or Diastolic BP ≥ 90mmHg), Liver enzyme (AST, ALT)
             level exceeds the maximum normal range more than one and a half times.

          5. History of drug abuse or positive drug screening.

          6. Participation in other drug studies within 3 months prior to the drug administration.

          7. Whole blood donation within 60 days, blood component donation within 30 days or who
             got transfusion within 30days.
      
NCT03087266|Acute-phase Response & Periodontal Treatment in Diabetes Affected Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients affected by Periodontal disease

          -  20% of periodontal pockets of the entire dentition

          -  20% bleeding on probing of the entire dentition

          -  documented radiographic bone loss

          -  Diagnosis of Diabetes Type 2 as measured through international standards

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  age younger than 18 years and older than 80 years

          -  pregnant or lactating females

          -  females using contraceptive methods

          -  need of antibiotic coverage for periodontal treatment

          -  previous periodontal treatment in the last 6 months.
      
NCT02590822|Diabetes Interventional Assessment of Slimming or Training to Lessen Inconspicuous Cardiovascular Dysfunction|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Capacity to provide informed consent before any trial-related activities

          -  Established T2DM (≥3months)

          -  HbA1c ≤ 9% if on triple therapy or ≤ 10% on diet & exercise or monotherapy or dual
             therapy

          -  Current glucose lowering therapy either mono, dual or triple of any combination of
             metformin, sulphonylurea, DPP-IV inhibitor, GLP-1 therapy or an SGLT2 +/- diet and
             exercise

          -  Poorly managed diet controlled diabetes (with HbA1c > 6.5% , not currently taking any
             glucose lowering therapy, meeting BMI inclusion range)

          -  Body mass index > 30Kg/m2 or > 27.5 Kg/m2 (South Asian),

          -  Diagnosis of T2DM before the age of 60 years of age

          -  Age ≥18 and ≤ 65 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  • Diabetes duration >12 years

          -  Currently taking more than three glucose lowering therapies

          -  Weight-loss of >5kg in the preceding 6 months

          -  Stage 4 or 5 chronic kidney disease (eGFR< 30ml/min/1.73m2),

          -  Current therapy with Insulin, thiazolidinediones, steroids or atypical antipsychotic
             medication

          -  Untreated thyroid disease

          -  Known macrovascular disease including coronary artery disease, stroke/TIA or
             peripheral vascular disease

          -  Presence of arrhythmia (including atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or 2nd or 3rd
             degree atrioventricular block)

          -  Known heart failure

          -  Other clinically relevant heart disease

          -  Inability to exercise or undertake a MRP

          -  Absolute contraindication to CMR

          -  Cardiovascular symptoms (angina, limiting dyspnoea during normal physical activity)

          -  Inflammatory condition e.g. Connective tissue disorder, Rheumatoid arthritis
      
NCT02672748|Growing Resilience in Wind River Indian Reservation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  self-identify as having one or more household members who are enrolled in a tribe

          -  express interest in having a food garden

          -  express willingness to wait to create a food garden for two years if randomized to
             control

          -  live within the boundaries of Wind River Indian Reservation, including the City of
             Riverton.

          -  if the household has two or more adults, that at least two adults in the household
             express willingness to participate in the semi-annual data gathering for two years.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  had a home food garden plot in the previous year that is over 30 square feet in area.
      
NCT02741050|Primary Care-Based Physical Activity for Diabetic Latinas|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Women who self-identify as Latino (or of a country of origin designated as of
             Hispanic/Latino origin by the Census Bureau)

          -  Have received a physician's diagnosis of type II diabetes and are currently being
             seen by a primary care physician

          -  Currently inactive, defined as participating in at least moderate intensity physical
             activity for less than 60 minutes per week

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Medical condition that may make exercise unsafe, including congestive heart failure,
             severe musculoskeletal problems or pulmonary conditions, or other conditions
             determined by the referring physician to preclude unsupervised exercise

          -  Unable to receive mailed materials (do not have a mailing address)

          -  Unable to engage in physical activity for at least 30 minutes

          -  Have a current or planned pregnancy

          -  Planning to move from the area within the next year
      
NCT02600091|Mindfulness-based Cognitive Therapy to Improve Emotional Wellbeing and Glycaemic Control in Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adults (over the age of 18 years)

          -  Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, diagnosed at least 1 year ago

          -  Mild to moderate levels of anxiety and/or depression (ie, HADS scores of ≥ 8)

          -  Most recent HbA1c value of ≥ 75 mmol/mol (Type 1) or ≥ 61 mmol/mol (Type 2).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Severe mental health problems (such as severe depression with suicidal ideation,
             psychosis, personality disorder)

          -  Terminal illness

          -  Inability to give informed consent in English

          -  Inability to understand written and spoken English.
      
NCT02883842|Cardiovascular Health and Text Messaging-Diabetes Mellitus (CHAT-DM) Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Participants with coronary artery disease defined as history of myocardial infarction
             and PCI

          -  History of diabetes

          -  Capability to read and send text messages

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Assumed poor adherence

          -  Do not have an active mobile phone
      
NCT02998970|Effects of Empagliflozin on Cardiac Structure in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male and female subjects ≥40 and ≤ 80 years of age

          -  History of type 2 diabetes

          -  Haemoglobin A1C ≥6.5 and ≤10 % within 3 months of the Screening Visit

          -  Established cardiovascular disease, defined as previous myocardial infarction ≥ 6
             months ago, or previous coronary revascularization ≥ 2 months ago

          -  Any background antihyperglycemic therapy (which has been stable for at least 2
             months)

          -  Evidence of a personally signed and dated informed consent document indicating that
             the subject has been informed of all pertinent aspects of the trial

          -  Willing and able to comply with scheduled visits, treatment plan, laboratory tests
             and other trial procedures

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Female subjects who are pregnant, lactating or of child bearing potential, or
             pre-menopausal women. (Menopause will be determined by patient and physician history)

          -  Type 1 diabetes

          -  Subjects currently treated with SGLT2 inhibitors, Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP1)
             receptor agonist, or saxagliptin

          -  Frequent episodes (>4/month) of moderate hypoglycaemia, as defined by the Canadian
             Diabetes Association 2013 Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Prevention and
             Management of Diabetes

          -  Any episode of severe hypoglycaemia within the past 12 months, as also defined by the
             Canadian Diabetes Association 2013 Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Prevention
             and Management of Diabetes

          -  Subjects in whom coronary revascularisation by either Percutaneous coronary
             intervention (PCI) or bypass surgery is being contemplated within 6 months, or who
             have undergone revascularisation in the prior 2 months

          -  Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate
             (eGFR)< 60 ml/min/1.73 m2 at screening

          -  Significant allergy or known intolerance to SGLT2 inhibitors or any ingredient in the
             formulations

          -  Subjects currently experiencing any clinically significant or unstable medical
             condition that might limit their ability to complete the study, or to comply with the
             requirements of the protocol, including: dermatologic disease, haematological
             disease, pulmonary disease, hepatic disease, gastrointestinal disease, genitourinary
             disease, endocrine disease, neurological disease and psychiatric disease

          -  Any malignancy not considered cured (except basal cell carcinoma of the skin). A
             subject is considered cured if there has been no evidence of cancer recurrence for
             the 5 years prior to screening

          -  Blood donation within 4 weeks prior to screening, or stated intention to donate blood
             or blood products during the period of the study or within one month following
             completion of the study

          -  Subjects who have participated in studies of an investigational drug or device within
             30 days prior to the screening visit

          -  Conditions preventing safe MRI imaging such as the subject's weight exceeding 500
             lbs; maximum body dimension from side-to-side exceeding 70 cm and from back to front
             of torso exceeding 50 cm or the presence of metallic fragments, clips or devices

          -  LVEF <30% on the most recent assessment within 6 months

          -  New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV or recent hospitalization for
             decompensated Heart Failure (HF) (<3 months)

          -  Unstable coronary syndromes

          -  Moderate or severe aortic stenosis

          -  Moderate or severe aortic regurgitation

          -  Moderate or severe mitral stenosis

          -  Moderate or severe mitral regurgitation
      
NCT03049592|High-risk Obstetrical Patient Intervention Utilizing the Contraceptive CHOICE Project Script|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Latina obstetric women

          -  Pre-gestational diabetes

          -  Obtaining prenatal care in the high-risk obstetrical clinic - Diabetes in Pregnancy

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Desires sterilization
      
NCT02572856|Continuous Glucose Monitoring During and After Surgery|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Adult (≥ 18 years) diabetic (both Type 1 & 2) patients who are self-monitoring
             glucose levels (via finger stick measurements) two to three times daily.

          -  Scheduled to have elective general surgery at UW Medical Center. Preferably target
             Surgery A- Orthopedic/GYN surgery/Bariatric patients.

          -  Proposed case duration > 2 hour case.

          -  Scheduled to have surgery 2-3 days after placement of CGM

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant and lactating females

          -  MRI, CT & Diathermy procedure
      
NCT02332434|Effects of Various Bariatric Surgical Procedures on Intestinal TRL Metabolism in Obese Type 2 Diabetic Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Subject with a body mass index between 35 and 60 kg / m²

          -  Subject with no contradiction to the 2 surgical techniques studied: Sleeve
             Gastrectomy and Gastric Bypass

          -  Subject with type 2 diabetes as defined

          -  Subject not having presented cardiovascular events (myocardial infarct, stroke,
             peripheral ischemia) in the previous 6 months

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant women
      
NCT02402153|Evaluation of Hypo-Safe Hypoglycaemia Alarm Device - the Pilot 2 Study - Healthy Subjects|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Healthy subjects

          -  Age 18-70 years

          -  For female participants: Not pregnant and, if child bearing potential, usage of
             reliable anti-contraceptive method during the study period

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Severe cardiac disease

               -  History of myocardial infarction

               -  Cardiac arrhythmia

          -  Previous stroke or cerebral haemorrhage and any other structural cerebral disease

          -  Active cancer or cancer diagnosis within the past five years

          -  Uraemia defined as s-creatinine above 3 times upper reference value

          -  Liver disease defined as s-ALAT above 3 times upper reference interval

          -  Epilepsy

          -  Use of antiepileptic drugs for any purposes

          -  Clinical important hearing impairment

          -  Use of active implantable medical device including

               -  Pacemaker and ICD-unit

               -  Cochlear implant

          -  Use of following drugs

               -  Chemotherapeutic drugs of any kind

               -  Methotrexate

               -  Third generation antipsychotic drugs (aripiprazole, quetiapine, clozapine,
                  ziprasidone, paliperidone, risperidone, sertindole, amisulpride, olanzapine)

          -  Abuse of alcohol (defined as consumption of > 250g alcohol (in Danish: 21
             "genstande")) per week or abuse of any other neuro-active substances

          -  Infection at the site of device-implantation

          -  Any haemorrhagic disease

          -  Diving (snorkel diving allowed) or parachute jumping

          -  Patients that are judged incapable to understand the patient information or who are
             unlikely to complete the investigation for any reason

          -  Persons operating MRI scanners.

          -  Persons operating handheld transceivers for communication (e.g. within the police,
             medical, fire, air traffic control, marine or military).

          -  Persons working at broadcast stations for television or FM/DAB radio.

          -  Persons performing extreme sport.
      
NCT02767440|Families on Track: A Digital Health Behavioral Intervention for Parents Seeking Treatment for Their Child With Obesity|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age: 18-60 years

          -  BMI: 25-50 kg/m2

          -  English speaking

          -  Mobile phone ownership

          -  Willingness to send and receive multiple text messages/day

          -  living in the same household as a Healthy Lifestyles patient ages 2-16

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Current pregnancy or lactation

          -  Prior or planned bariatric surgery Both child and parent participation in other
             obesity trials - including the evaluation of the Bull City Fit Program at the Healthy
             Lifestyles program

          -  History of heart attack, stroke, bipolar disorder schizophrenia or recent cancer
             diagnosis

          -  Plans to relocate within 1 year
      
NCT02864212|Development of a Methodology to Design a High Order Sliding Mode Controller for Drug Dosage|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I, II, II

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Impossibility to measure depth of anesthesia or invasive blood pressure.
             Impossibility of using glucose monitor.
      
NCT02933853|A Trial Investigating the Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Properties of Faster-acting Insulin Aspart in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, aged 18−75 years (both inclusive) at the time of signing informed
             consent. The total number of subjects aged 65−75 years (both inclusive) must NOT
             exceed 25.

          -  Subjects diagnosed (clinically) with type 2 diabetes mellitus for at least 12 months
             (365 days) prior to the day of screening

          -  HbA1C below or equal to 9.5 % based on central laboratory analysis

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Smoker (defined as a subject who is smoking more than one cigarette or the equivalent
             per day) who is not able or willing to refrain from smoking and use of nicotine
             substitute products during the in-patient period

          -  Surgery or trauma with significant blood loss (more than 500 mL) within the last 90
             days prior to screening
      
NCT02964104|A Trial Investigating the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics (the Exposure of the Trial Drug in the Body) and Pharmacodynamics (the Effect of the Investigated Drug on the Body) of Insulin 287 in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Male or female, age between 18 and 64 years (both inclusive) at the time of signing
             informed consent.

          -  Subject who is considered to be generally healthy (with the exception of conditions
             associated with diabetes mellitus), based on the medical history, physical
             examination, and the results of vital signs, ECG and laboratory safety tests, as
             judged by the investigator.

          -  Body mass index between 20.0 and 34.9 kg/m^2 (both inclusive).

          -  Type 2 diabetes mellitus (as diagnosed clinically) for ≥12 months (365 days).

          -  No change in insulin treatment regimen during the last 90 days prior to screening.

          -  Current total daily insulin treatment between 0.3 and 1.0 (I) U/kg/day (both
             inclusive).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Known or suspected hypersensitivity to trial products or related products.

          -  Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding, or intending to become pregnant or is of
             child-bearing potential and not using adequate contraceptive methods (adequate
             contraceptive measures as required by regulation or practice)(highly effective
             contraceptive methods are considered those with a failure rate less than 1% undesired
             pregnancies per year including surgical sterilisation,hormonal intrauterine devices
             (coil), oral hormonal contraceptives, sexual abstinence or a surgically sterilised
             partner). Females who are not postmenopausal can participate in the study if they use
             adequate contraceptive methods. Postmenopausal is defined as women aged <52 years and
             being amenorrheic for more than one year with serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH
             level >40 IU/L or aged ≥ 52 years and being amenorrheic for less than one year and
             with serum FSH level > 40 IU/L or aged ≥ 52 years being amenorrheic for more than one
             year.

          -  Receipt of any investigational medicinal product within 3 months before the screening
             visit of this trial.

          -  History of deep leg vein thrombosis or repeated episodes of deep leg vein thrombosis
             in 1st degree relatives (parents, siblings or children) as judged by the
             investigator.

          -  Recurrent severe hypoglycaemia (more than 1 severe hypoglycaemic event within the
             past 180 days) or hypoglycaemic unawareness as judged by the investigator or
             hospitalisation for diabetic ketoacidosis within the past 180 days.

          -  Use of oral antidiabetic drugs (OADs) or GLP-1 receptor agonists (e.g. exenatide,
             liraglutide) within 3 months prior to screening.
      
NCT02502929|Diabetes Risk Reduction Through Eat, Walk, Sleep and Medication Therapy Management for Depressed Cambodians|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Self-identified as Cambodian or Cambodian-American

          -  Khmer speaking

          -  Major depressive disorder

          -  Elevated diabetes risk score per ADA guidelines

          -  >= 3 medications

          -  Ambulatory

          -  Competent to give consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnancy or plans to become pregnant in the next 2 years

          -  Previous diagnosis of diabetes

          -  Vision or hearing problems that would prevent participation in group sessions

          -  Currently being followed by a physician for major medical problem

          -  Currently being followed by a healthcare provider for major psychiatric problem other
             than depression
      
NCT02789800|Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity - Quebec|
        PATIENTS (Studies 2.1 & 2.2):

        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  3+ Chronic Conditions

          -  18 to 80 years of age

          -  Eligible for DIMAC02 intervention

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Unable to reasonably respond to questionnaires or provide informed consent (ie.
             cognitive impairment or language barrier)

          -  Deemed by provider to be too fragile

        CAREGIVERS (Study 2.1):

          -  Close family member (wife/husband, parent, son/daughter, brother/sister) and/or
             caregiver to a patient that has received DIMAC02 intervention (first component)

          -  Sharing time with the patient (before, during and after the intervention)

          -  French speaking

        DECISION-MAKERS (Study 2.1):

          -  FMG Physician-Manager, FMG Coordinators, CIUSSS Decision-Makers/Managers

          -  Involved/Familiar with DIMAC02 program

        DIMAC02 INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAM (Study 2.1):

          -  Nurse, Nutritionist, Kinesiologist, Social Worker, Psychologist

          -  Has delivered DIMAC02 intervention to at least one patient

        REFERRAL PROFESSIONALS (Study 2.1):

        - Family physician or nurse/nurse practitioner
      
NCT02378259|Randomized Clinical Trial; Medical vs Bariatric Surgery for Adolescents (13-16 y) With Severe Obesity|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 13-15 years

          -  BMI >35

          -  Failed comprehensive treatment for obesity > 1 year

          -  Passing assessment of psychologist

          -  Tanner 3 or more

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Monogenic obesity (for example Praeder Willis, Laurence Moon-Bardet-Biedl)

          -  Obesity secondary to brain injury

          -  Severely mentally disabled

          -  Not eligible for general anesthesia

          -  Psychotic or other major psychiatric illness

          -  Previous major gastrointestinal surgery
      
NCT02733185|Trial to Assess Chelation Therapy 2|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age: ≥ 50 years

          2. History of diabetes, defined as medical record evidence or patient report of
             currently using insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, or with a history of fasting
             blood glucose measurement of 126 mg/dL or higher, or a history of HbA1c of 6.5% or
             higher.

          3. History of myocardial infarction based on the Universal Definition of MI. 36

               1. When information about the MI hospitalization is available, all MI types except
                  Type 2 qualify for study entry.

               2. When information about the MI hospitalization is not available, a wall motion
                  abnormality on imaging or a perfusion defect on scan that corresponds to a
                  coronary distribution, whether or not accompanied by pathological Q waves in the
                  appropriate distribution, will qualify the patient for study entry. This
                  criterion requires a call to the CCC for case review.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Baseline serum creatinine >2.0 mg/dL.

          2. HbA1C >11%.

          3. Myocardial infarction within 6 weeks of randomization.

          4. History of allergic reactions to EDTA or any other components of the chelation
             solution, including heparin.

          5. Coronary or peripheral arterial revascularization procedure performed within the last
             6 months.

          6. Planned revascularization procedure in the 6 months following enrollment.

          7. Heart failure hospitalization within 6 months prior to enrollment or in clinical
             heart failure at the time of proposed enrollment (such as NYHA Class 3 dyspnea +
             rales>basilar, and additional signs of fluid overload). Such patients may be treated
             with diuretics and enrolled when stable.

          8. Poor or no venous access in the upper extremities.

          9. Prior intravenous chelation therapy within 5 years or oral chelation within 2 years
             of the time of proposed randomization.

         10. Prior participation in TACT1.

         11. Baseline platelet count <100,000.

         12. History of cigarette smoking within the last 3 months.

         13. ALT or AST > 2.0 times the upper limit of normal.

         14. Wilson's disease, hemochromatosis, or parathyroid disease.

         15. Any medical condition including a current diagnosis of cancer (except non-melanoma
             skin cancer) that will limit patient survival over the duration of the trial.

         16. Any factor that suggests that the potential participant will not be able to adhere to
             the protocol.

         17. Women of child-bearing potential including those with plans for post-menopausal in
             vitro fertilization or other reproductive technology.
      
NCT02586519|Pressure-Sensing Insoles in the Neuropathic Ulcer Treatment Pathway|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetes (according to AAFP diagnostic criteria )

          -  Presence of neuropathy with Loss of Protective Sensation (LOPS), as defined by any
             loss of sensation as per the assessments included in the Modified Neuropathy
             Disability Score (MNDS)

          -  Active plantar diabetic foot ulcer (Grade 1A, according to the University of Texas
             Wound Classification System , )

               -  A minimum size ulcer ≥1cm2 and ≤ 12 cm2 post debridement at time of
                  randomization

               -  If the subject has more than one ulcer, they should be identified and at least 2
                  cm apart

          -  Age >18

          -  At least one palpable foot pulse

          -  Ability to understand all of the study requirements

          -  Life expectancy greater than the duration of the study

          -  Toe pressure (plethysmography) > 50mm Hg

          -  Subject or responsible caregiver is willing and able to maintain the required
             offloading (as applicable for the location of the ulcer) and applicable dressing
             changes

          -  Doppler Ultrasound positive for at least one pedal pulse in each foot

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Weight > 400 lb (182 kg)

          -  Uncorrected visual impairment

          -  Active Infection

          -  Non-plantar ulcers on the ankle, posterior heel, or other location

          -  More than one active plantar ulcer

          -  Presence of severe ischemia (any of: absence of foot pulses, Ankle Brachial Index 0.6
             > [ABI] > 1.2, capillary refill time > 5 seconds; see Appendix 3)

          -  Current participation in another clinical investigation of a medical device or a
             drug; or has participated in such a study within 30 days prior to this study

          -  Current smokers

          -  Active abuse of alcohol

             o Subject has a history of any of the following intercurrent illnesses or conditions
             that would compromise the safety of the subject or the normal healing process:

          -  End-stage renal disease

          -  Immunosuppression

          -  Severe malnutrition

          -  Liver disease

          -  Aplastic anemia

          -  Scleroderma

          -  Acquired immune deficiency disease (AIDS) or HIV positive

          -  Connective tissue disorder

          -  Exacerbation of sickle cell anemia

          -  Active Charcot foot

          -  Excessive lymphedema

          -  Osteomyelitis and gangrene

          -  Subjects with ulcers secondary to a disease other than diabetes (e.g. vasculitis,
             neoplasms or haematological disorders)

             o At the end of the run-in period and prior to randomization, the subject be excluded
             if the following conditions are not met:

          -  Subject does not continue to meet the entrance criteria (inclusion and exclusion)

          -  The size of the study ulcer, following debridement, has decreased by more than 30%
             from the baseline assessment measured at screening.

          -  Abnormal toe and/or ankle range of motion

          -  Metatarsal ray amputation(s) (although transmetatarsal ray amputation is not an
             exclusion criteria)
      
NCT02970344|I HEAL for Breast Cancer Survivors With Diabetes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  diagnosis of Stage I to III breast cancer,

          -  diagnosis of diabetes mellitus type 2

          -  completed local definitive treatment (i.e., surgical treatment, chemotherapy and/or
             radiation therapy),

          -  physician verification of ability to participate in the intervention,

          -  English speaking.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  <21 years of age,

          -  cognitive or hearing impairment,

          -  unable to provide meaningful consent (i.e., impairment such that descriptions of the
             research are not clearly understood),

          -  presence of a health problem that precludes safe participation in the intervention.
      
NCT02566317|Stand & Move at Work|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Worksite-level inclusion criteria:

          -  Size: Small to moderate size worksite (20-60 employees)

          -  Schedule: >80% of employees full time

          -  Occupation: Seated office work, primarily computer- and- telephone-based work, little
             movement or walking

          -  Wellness environment: Not currently undergoing a wellness program aimed at increasing
             activity at work

          -  Workstations: Willing to have sit-stand workstations installed at a worksite

          -  Willing to be randomized: Willing to be randomized to either intervention conditions

        Member-level inclusion criteria:

          -  Age: 18 years and older

          -  Health status: Generally good health and able to safely increase LPA and reduce
             sitting time

          -  Employment status: Any sedentary job, sitting most of the say, little standing or
             walking

          -  Occupation: Traditional sitting desk, willing to have a sit-stand workstation
             installed at desk

          -  Workstation: traditional sitting desk;willing to have a sit-stand workstation
             installed at desk

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  contraindication to prolonged standing at work
      
NCT02589756|Fish or Nuts? Dietary Effects on Cardiometabolic Risk Factors and Persistent Organic Pollutants|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men and women aged 40 to 65 years

          -  BMI in the overweight (25-29.9) or obese (30-34.9)

          -  Range and components of metabolic syndrome (waist circumference >102 cm for men or
             >94 cm for women; fasting glucose >5.6 mmol/l, HDL cholesterol <1.3 for women or <1.0
             for men, and triglycerides >1.7 mmol/l)

          -  Fertile women are required to use reliable contraception

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Cigarette smoking

          -  Diabetes mellitus

          -  Allergy or dislike of fish

          -  allergy or dislike of nuts

          -  chronic disease

          -  morbid obesity due to ethical reasons and weight fluctuations

          -  eating disorder
      
NCT02934113|"Working for You" Workplace Obesity Intervention|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  All participants must be a member of a chosen work group

          -  Speak English

          -  At least 18 years of age

          -  Sub-group (iOTA Intervention): BMI >=30, cell phone with text messaging capability

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Sub-group (iOTA Intervention): pregnant or nursing, weight-loss surgery in past 12
             mths, currently receiving chemotherapy or radiation treatments
      
NCT02407132|Family Model of Diabetes Self-Management Education in the Marshallese Community|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Primary Participant:

          -  Must be 18 years or older

          -  Self-reported Diabetes Mellitus Type 2 diagnosis by a health care provider

          -  Self-reported Marshallese ethnicity or descent

        Secondary (Family) Participant:

          -  Must be 18 years or older

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Younger than 18
      
NCT02482584|Impact of CPAP Treatment on Arterial Stiffness in Patients With T2DM and Newly Diagnosed Obstructive Sleep Apnoea|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes mellitus (WHO criteria)

          -  Obstructive sleep apnea defined as apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI) > 15 diagnosed with
             ApneaLink+® measured within three months or less prior to visit 0.

          -  Signed informed content.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Contraindications to CPAP treatment.

          -  Treatment with CPAP within the last 6 months prior to visit 1.

          -  Works in a transportation-related industry

          -  C-peptide < 300 pmol/l - measured less than 6 months prior to visit 0

          -  HbA1c:< 7% or >10% - both exclusive - at visit 0

          -  Changes in antidiabetic treatment during the last four weeks prior to visit 0.

          -  Unstable bodyweight, i.e. >5% change during the last three months prior to visit 0.

          -  Other sleep breathing disorder
      
NCT02615353|Preventing Diabetes in Latino Youth|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Latino: self-report

          -  Age: 12-16

          -  Obese: BMI percentile ≥95th percentile for age and gender or BMI ≥30 kg/m22

          -  Prediabetic: fasting glucose ≥100 and/or 2-hour post-OGTT glucose ≥120 mg/dl

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Taking medication(s) or diagnosed with a condition that influences carbohydrate
             metabolism, PA, and/or cognition

          -  Type 2 diabetes: Fasting glucose ≥126 mg/dl or 2-hour glucose ≥200 mg/dl.

          -  Recent Hospitalization (previous 2 months)

          -  Currently enrolled in (or within previous 6 months) a formal weight loss program.

          -  Diagnosed depression or other condition that may impact QoL
      
NCT02819011|OHI--Randomized Control Trial to Evaluate Efficacy, Acceptability, and Perception of Benefit of an Innovative Custom AFO|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Age 65 or older

          -  High risk of falling

          -  Ambulatory

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with active wound infection

          -  Patients on immune suppressors

          -  Acute fractures on the foot

          -  Acute heart failure

          -  Major foot amputation
      
NCT02757183|Do Patient-Centric mHealth Programs Improve Patient Engagement and Health Outcomes.|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  A1c greater than or equal to 6.5%.

          -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

          -  Ability to comply with study protocol.

          -  Available and usable internet facilities at home.

          -  Availability and usable smart phone.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        -Inability to comply with instructions and directions.
      
NCT03119142|Economic Crisis and Adherence to the Mediterranean Diet (CASSIOPEA)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  The present study will include subjects recruited in the Moli-sani cohort during
             2005-2006 and for which inclusion criteria were:

          -  aged >=35 years

          -  inscribed in the city hall registries

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  The present study will include subjects recruited in the Moli-sani cohort during
             2005-2006 and for which exclusion criteria were:

          -  pregnancy at the time of recruitment,

          -  disturbances in understanding or willingness

          -  current poly-traumas or coma, refusal to sign the Informed Consent form
      
NCT01864460|Improving Autonomic Function and Balance in Diabetic Neuropathy|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Impaired glucose regulation at the time of screening or within three months of
             screening. This definition includes patients with IFG, IGT, and early or mild DM2.
             Patients can be included if they have an increased risk for diabetes with a HBA1C
             greater than or equal to 5.7% (using a method certified by the National
             Glycohemoglobin Standardization Program), or they have diabetes with a HBA1C greater
             than or equal to 6.5%, or an abnormal fasting venous glucose, or abnormal venous
             glucose values following a 75 gram oral glucose load. Glucose values are as defined
             (mg/dl): IFG fasting glucose of 100-125 mg/dl, IGT- fasting less than 126, 2 h
             140-199, or diabetes - fasting glucose greater than or equal to 126, or 2 h greater
             than or equal to 200 based on the Standards for Medical Care in Diabetes 2010 by the
             American Diabetes Association.

          -  The HbA1c may be normal, but should be less than 9%.

          -  If diabetic subjects are on medication, they should be stable on medication for at
             least 3 months prior to entering the study. Addition or change in antidiabetic
             medication (if on medication) after enrollment does not affect participation or group
             assignment.

          -  Impaired glucose regulation is the most likely cause of the neuropathy (determined by
             a medical history, family history, history of medications, occupational history,
             history of exposure to toxins (including significant alcohol use), physical and
             neurological examinations, and appropriate laboratory studies.

          -  Autonomic neuropathy as defined by the Toronto Diabetic Neuropathy Expert Group
             2010/11 consensus criteria. Subjects with be entered into the study if they have (1)
             increased symptoms of autonomic neuropathy based on an increase in the number of
             symptoms (>3) OR impact score (>7) in the validated SAS OR (2) at least two
             abnormalities on autonomic testing. The autonomic testing includes: (a) heart rate
             variability (E:I ratio and heart rate range-HRR), (b) Valsalva ratio, (c) Valsalva
             beat to beat blood pressure variation, (d) 30:15 ratio, (e) tilt table testing, and
             (f) QSART values.

          -  Age 30 (to exclude patients with type 1 diabetes) to 80 years inclusive

          -  Medically stable at the time of enrollment.

          -  Women of childbearing potential must be using an acceptable method of contraception
             to prevent pregnancy when they are enrolled in the study and must agree to continue
             to practice an acceptable method of contraception for the duration of their
             participation in the study.

          -  Patient must agree to take an alternative medication to coumadin when undergoing a
             skin biopsy.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant women, prisoners, institutionalized subjects and other at risk subjects will
             not be included in this study.

          -  Neuropathy due to factors other than impaired glucose regulation based on careful
             clinical and laboratory evaluation by the physician.

          -  Current severe medical conditions that are active on the day of screening that would
             affect the patient's ability to participate in or complete the study.

          -  Autonomic neuropathy that is so severe that it would limit the patient's ability to
             participate in the study interventions.
      
NCT01419535|Mifepristone for Metabolic Syndrome|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA:

               1. Men and women 35 - 70 years of age

               2. Subjects will be overweight or obese, with BMI ranging from 25 - 37 kg/m2.

               3. Subjects will have either impaired fasting glucose (greater than or equal to 100
                  mg/dL) or a 2-hour glucose value greater than or equal to 140 mg/dl during an
                  oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).

                  OR

                  Mild diabetes defined as patients with a Hba1c less than or equal to 7% on no
                  medications (diet-controlled) or on a stable dose of metformin and no other
                  hypoglycemic agents for greater than or equal to 3 months before study entry.

               4. Willing and able to comply with study requirements.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          1. Pregnancy and lactation

          2. Diabetes requiring pharmacologic treatment. Diagnosis of diabetes will be based on
             the 2011 American Diabetes Association guidelines: Hba1c greater than or equal to
             6.5%, fasting plasma glucose greater than or equal to 126 mg/dl, 2-hour glucose
             greater than or equal to 200 mg/dl during an OGTT, or a random blood glucose greater
             than or equal to 200 mg/dl along with classic symptoms of hyperglycemia (34)

          3. Uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure greater than or equal to 180/110 mmHg)

          4. Current unstable medical conditions including clinically significant impaired cardiac
             function (Stage III and IV Cardiac failure), cardiac ischemia, severe respiratory
             insufficiency requiring oxygen therapy as assessed on history and/or physical exam

          5. Liver function tests (ALT, AST) more than 3-times the upper normal limit

          6. Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min)

          7. Evidence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) based on history and physical
             examination and/or known positive HIV antibodies

          8. Evidence of hepatitis C based on history and physical examination and/or known
             positive hepatitis C (HCV) antibody

          9. History of hemorrhagic disorders or on anticoagulants

         10. History of endometrial cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, unexplained vaginal bleeding,
             or endometrial thickness greater than 6 mm

         11. Change in dose of lipid-lowering medications (including HMG Co-A inhibitors ,
             fibrates, niacin, ezetemibe, and over-the-counter fish oil supplements) within one
             month of study entry and during the study period

         12. Current administration of medications known to be strong CYP3A4 inhibitors including
             ketoconazole, itraconazole, and erythromycin

         13. Use of herbal supplements or grapefruit juice within 14 days of study drug initiation

         14. Use of medications or dietary supplements that inihibit or induce CYP3A4 activity
             within 14 days of study drug initiation

         15. Use of oral, injectable, or inhaled glucocorticoids or megestrol in the past six
             months

         16. Use of estrogen-containing hormone therapy

         17. Potential pseudocushing s states: depression or intake of > 2 alcoholic drinks a day.
             Subjects will be screened for depression using the well-validated physician health
             questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) with a score cut-off of greater than or equal to 10 for
             moderate depression (35).

         18. Subjects who are actively dieting or are in a weight loss program

         19. Midnight salivary cortisol > 100 ng/dl on two separate occasions

         20. Untreated thyroid dysfunction (TSH and Free T4 not within normal range). If abnormal
             on screening labs, they will be repeated to confirm that not due to lab error or
             non-thyroidal illness.

         21. Moderate to severe anemia (hemoglobin < 10 g/dl)

         22. Blood donation of more than 500 ml within one month prior to study enrollment

         23. Subjects with a prolonged QTc interval on electrocardiogram

         24. Unable to give informed consent
      
NCT01399385|New Heart Imaging Techniques to Evaluate Possible Heart Disease|
        -  INCLUSION:

               1. Subjects with or without history of cardiovascular diseases and with various
                  degrees of cardiovascular risk factor. Subjects with known or suspected
                  atherosclerotic disease based on clinical findings or documented by angiography
                  (conventional, CTA or MRA), or Doppler ultrasound. And, healthy volunteers and
                  subjects with known or suspected diseases affecting the thoracic organs,
                  abdominal organs, and other organs affected by metabolic diseases such as body
                  fat and muscles. Subjects at risk for atherosclerosis including: smoking,
                  obesity, hyperlipidemia, low levels of high density lipoproteins (<50 mg/dl for
                  women and <40 mg/dl for men), hypertension, family history (early onset
                  atherosclerosis <55 year old in male and < 65 year old in female who is first
                  degree relative), and diabetes mellitus or metabolic syndrome.

               2. Subject must be willing to participate in the protocol.

               3. Subject age greater than 18 years old.

               4. Subject must be able to provide informed consent.

               5. Subject must be clinically stable and be able to come to the Clinical Center to
                  participate in the study.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          1. Subjects with contraindication to MRI scanning. These contraindications include but
             are not limited to the following devices or conditions:

               1. Implanted cardiac pacemaker or defibrillator

               2. Cochlear Implants

               3. Ocular foreign body (e.g. metal shavings)

               4. Embedded shrapnel fragments

               5. Central nervous system aneurysm clips

               6. Implanted neural stimulator

               7. Medical infusion pumps

               8. Any implanted device that is incompatible with MRI.

          2. Unsatisfactory performance status as judged by the referring physician such that the
             subject could not tolerate an MRI scan. Examples of medical conditions that would not
             be accepted would include unstable angina and dyspnea at rest.

          3. Subjects requiring sedation for MRI studies.

          4. Subjects with a condition precluding entry into the scanner (e.g. morbid obesity,
             claustrophobia, etc.).

          5. Pregnant or lactating women.

          6. Subjects with severe back-pain or motion disorders who will be unable to tolerate
             supine positioning within the MRI scanner and hold still for the duration of the
             examination.

          7. Subjects who are unable to undergo a CTA within 2 months of the MRA part of this
             study, or are unable to undergo or be scheduled for a cardiac catheterization within
             2 months of the MRA.

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA - FOR GADOLINIUM BASED MRI STUDIES ONLY:

          1. History of allergic reaction to gadolinium contrast agents despite the use of
             premeditation with an anti-histaminic and cortisone.

          2. eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73m^2

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA - FOR CORONARY CTA:

          1. Contraindication to the use of CTA contrast agents:

               1. Creatinine value > 1.4 mg/dl

               2. History of multiple myeloma

               3. Use of metformin-containing products less than 24 hrs prior to contrast
                  administration

               4. History of allergic reaction to CTA contrast agents despite the use of pre-
                  medication with an anti-histaminic and cortisone.

          2. Subjects with contraindication precluding the use of beta blockers (Appendix C)
             necessary to perform the coronary CTA. These include:

               1. Asthma

               2. Active bronchospasm

               3. Moderate or severe COPD

               4. 2nd or 3rd degree AV block

               5. Decompensated cardiac failure

               6. Allergy to beta blockers

               7. Systolic blood pressure < 100 mm Hg

               8. Pregnancy or nursing

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA - FOR NITROGLYCERIN USE:

        Subjects reporting a history of the following conditions will be excluded:

          1. Severe aortic stenosis

          2. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

          3. Inferior myocardial infarction with right ventricular involvement

          4. Cardiac tamponade

          5. Constrictive pericarditis

          6. Severe hypotension (systolic BP <90 mmHg)

          7. Uncorrected hypovolemia

          8. Raised intracranial pressure

          9. Glaucoma

         10. Severe anemia

         11. Concomitant use of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors (sildenafil-Viagra,
             tadalifil-Cialis, verdenafil-Levitra)

         12. History of hypersensitivity to nitroglycerin
      
NCT03021187|Efficacy and Safety of Oral Semaglutide Versus Placebo in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Treated With Insulin|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related
             activities are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including
             activities to determine suitability for the trial.

          -  Male or female, age above or equal to 18 years at the time of signing informed
             consent. For Japan only: Male or female, age above or equal to 20 years at the time
             of signing informed consent.

          -  Diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus 90 days or more prior to the day of
             screening.

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) of 7.0-9.5% (53-80 mmol/mol) (both inclusive).

          -  Stable treatment with one of the following insulin regimens (minimum 10 IU/day) 90 or
             more days prior to the day of screening. Maximum 20% change in total daily dose is
             acceptable: (1) Basal insulin alone or (2) Basal and bolus insulin in any combination
             or (3) Premixed insulin including combinations of soluble insulins

        Exclusion Criteria:

        - Female who is pregnant, breast-feeding or intends to become pregnant or is of
        child-bearing potential and not using an adequate contraceptive method (adequate
        contraceptive measure as required by local regulation or practice).

        For Greece only: adequate contraceptive measures are defined as combined hormonal
        contraception (containing oestrogen and progesterone), which suppress ovulation (oral,
        intravaginal, percutaneous), progesterone-only hormonal contraception which suppress
        ovulation (oral, injectable, implantable), intrauterine device, hormone-releasing
        intrauterine system, bilateral tubal occlusion, partner with vasectomy, sexual abstinence.

        For Japan only: Adequate contraceptive measures are abstinence (not having sex),
        diaphragm, condom (by the partner), intrauterine device, sponge, spermicide or oral
        contraceptives.

        For Canada only: adequate contraceptive measures are defined as combined hormonal
        contraception (containing oestrogen and progesterone), which suppress ovulation (oral,
        intravaginal, percutaneous), progesterone-only hormonal contraception which suppress
        ovulation (oral, injectable, implantable), intrauterine device, hormone-releasing
        intrauterine system, bilateral tubal occlusion, partner with vasectomy, sexual abstinence

          -  Any disorder, which in the investigator's opinion might jeopardise subject's safety
             or compliance with the protocol.

          -  Family or personal history of Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2 (MEN 2) or
             Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC).

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic).

          -  History of major surgical procedures involving the stomach and potentially affecting
             absorption of trial product (e.g. subtotal and total gastrectomy, sleeve gastrectomy,
             gastric bypass surgery).

          -  Any of the following: myocardial infarction (MI), stroke or hospitalisation for
             unstable angina or transient ischaemic attack within the past 180 days prior to the
             day of screening and randomisation.

          -  Classified as being in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV.

          -  Planned coronary, carotid or peripheral artery revascularisation known on the day of
             screening.

          -  Renal impairment defined as estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) less than 60
             mL/min/1.73 m^2 as per Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration formula
             (CKD-EPI).

          -  Treatment with any medication for the indication of diabetes or obesity other than
             stated in the inclusion criteria in a period of 90 days before the day of screening.
             An exception is short-term change of insulin treatment for acute illness for a total
             of 14 days or less.

          -  Known hypoglycaemic unawareness according to Clarke's questionnaire.

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy requiring acute treatment. Verified by
             fundus photography or dilated fundoscopy performed within 90 days prior to
             randomisation.

          -  History or presence of malignant neoplasms within the last 5 years (except basal and
             squamous cell skin cancer and carcinoma in situ).

          -  Subjects with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) more than 2.5 x upper normal limit
             (UNL).
      
NCT03175120|A Trial Comparing Insulin Degludec/Liraglutide and Insulin Degludec in Combination With Metformin in Chinese Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Inadequately Controlled With Basal Insulin Therapy and Metformin With or Without One Other Oral Antidiabetic Drug (OAD)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Informed consent obtained before any trial-related activities. Trial-related activities
        are any procedures that are carried out as part of the trial, including procedures to
        determine suitability for the trial

          -  Male or female, age at least 18 years at the time of signing inform consent

          -  Type 2 diabetes mellitus (clinically diagnosed)

          -  HbA1c (glycosylated haemoglobin) above or equal to 7.5% by central laboratory
             analysis, with the aim of a median of 8.5%. When approximately 50% of the randomised
             subjects have an HbA1c above 8.5%, the remaining subjects randomised must have an
             HbA1c below or equal to 8.5% or when approximately 50% of the subjects randomised
             have an HbA1c below or equal to 8.5%, the remaining subjects randomised must have an
             HbA1c above 8.5%

          -  Current treatment for at least 90 calendar days prior to screening with basal insulin
             plus metformin plus/minus α-glucosidase inhibitors, sulphonylureas, glinides or
             thiazolidinediones. Subjects should be on a stable dose for at least 60 calendar days
             prior to screening of:

        Basal insulin 20-50 units (U)/day (both inclusive) ( Individual fluctuations of plus/minus
        5U during the 60 day period prior to the day of screening are acceptable.) on the day of
        screening in combination with:

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and sulphonylureas (above
             or equal to half of the max approved dose according to local label) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and glinide (at least
             half of the max approved dose according to local label) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and α-glucosidase
             inhibitors (AGI) (at least half of the max approved dose according to local label) or

          -  Metformin (above or equal to 1500 mg or max tolerated dose) and thiazolidinediones
             (at least half of the max approved dose according to local label)

          -  Body mass index (BMI) above or equal to 24 kg/m^2

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Current use of any antidiabetic drug (except for basal insulin, metformin, α-glucosidase
        inhibitors, sulphonylureas, glinides or thiazolidinediones) or anticipated change in
        concomitant medication, that in the investigator´s opinion could interfere with glucose
        level (e.g. systemic corticosteroids)

          -  Treatment with glucagon like peptide -1 receptor agonists, or dipeptidyl-peptidase-4
             inhibitors or insulin (except for basal insulin) within 90 days prior to Visit 1

          -  Impaired liver function defined as alanine aminotransferase above or equal to 2.5
             times upper normal range

          -  Impaired renal function defined as serum-creatinine above or equal to 133 μmol/L for
             males and above or equal to 125 μmol/L for females, or as defined according to local
             contraindications for metformin Screening calcitonin above or equal to 50 ng/L

          -  Personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or multiple endocrine
             neoplasia type 2 (MEN2)

          -  Cardiac disorder defined as: congestive heart failure (NYHA class III-IV), diagnosis
             of unstable angina pectoris, cerebral stroke and/or myocardial infarction within the
             last 12 months prior to screening and/or planned coronary, carotid or peripheral
             artery revascularisation procedures

          -  Severe uncontrolled treated or untreated hypertension (systolic blood pressure above
             or equal to 180 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure above or equal to 100 mm Hg)

          -  Proliferative retinopathy or maculopathy (macular oedema) requiring acute treatment

          -  History of pancreatitis (acute or chronic)
      
NCT02302612|The CREATE Wellness Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Kaiser Permanente Northern California members enrolled in the PHASE disease
             management program and not meeting all goals of care for the preceding 2 years.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Schizophrenia or personality disorder

          -  Unable to communicate in English

          -  Unwilling to participate in group-based in-person program

          -  Pregnant

          -  Terminal or debilitating illness
      
NCT02487537|Immediate and Long-term Induction of Incretin Release by Artificial Sweeteners 2|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  healthy

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  no metabolic disorders such as diabetes, hypothyroidism, corticoid therapy, heart or
             lung disease
      
NCT02455011|Dose Escalation Study to Evaluate Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of REMD-477 in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men and women between the ages of 18 and 65 years old, inclusive, at the time of
             screening;

          -  Females of non-child bearing potential must be ≥1 year post-menopausal (confirmed by
             a serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels ≥ 40 IU/mL) or documented as being
             surgically sterile, and females of child bearing potential must use two medically
             acceptable methods of contraception;

          -  Male subjects must be willing to use clinically acceptable contraception during
             treatment and for 2 months after the last administration of REMD-477;

          -  Normal or clinically-acceptable physical examination, laboratory test values, and
             12-lead ECG (reporting heart rate and PR, QRS, QT, and QTcF) at screening;

          -  Body mass index between 23 and 40 kg/m2, inclusive, at screening;

          -  Diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes as defined by the current American Diabetes
             Association (ADA) criteria;

          -  Subjects in Parts A and B only: Treatment-naive, controlled with diet and exercise,
             or treated with oral antidiabetic medications and willing to wash-out and discontinue
             oral medications during the study;

          -  Fasting plasma glucose 126 - 270 mg/dL (7-15 mM), inclusive, at screening and at
             re-test on Day -1;

          -  Subjects in Parts A and B only: Screening HbA1c of 7.0-10 % inclusive for subjects
             not currently taking any oral antidiabetic medications, or 6.5-9.5% for subjects
             receiving acceptable oral antidiabetic medications;

          -  Subjects in Part C only: Screening HbA1c of 7.5-10 % inclusive for subjects on stable
             doses of metformin.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  History of drug or alcohol abuse within the last 6 months or a positive illegal drug
             urine test result;

          -  History or family history of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors or multiple endocrine
             neoplasia;

          -  History or family history of pheochromocytoma;

          -  Known or suspected susceptibility to infectious disease (eg, taking immunosuppressive
             agents or has a documented inherited or acquired immunodeficiency);

          -  Positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibodies, hepatitis B surface
             antigen (HbsAg), or hepatitis C antibodies (HepC Ab);

          -  Participation in an investigational drug or device trial within 30 days of screening
             or within 5 times the half-life of the investigational agent in the other clinical
             study, if known, whichever period is longer;

          -  Blood donor, or blood loss>300 mL, within 30 days of Day 1;

          -  Recent use (6 weeks prior to Screening) of thiazolidinediones, >half-maximal dose
             sulfonylurea agent therapy, or any injectable antidiabetic agents (exenatide and
             other injectable GLP-1 agonists, insulin and insulin analogs, etc.);

          -  Other gastrointestinal, cardiac, renal and CNS (i.e. hypoglycemia unawareness)
             conditions specific to diabetes that would pose additional risk to subject's safety
             or interfere with the study evaluation, procedures or completion;

          -  Lipid panel profiles of non-HDL-C (total cholesterol minus HDL-C) >219 mg/dL, LDL-C
             >189 mg/dL, and/or fasting triglycerides >499 mg/dL;

          -  Female subject is pregnant or breastfeeding.

        Other inclusion and exclusion criteria may apply.
      
NCT02449460|Cardiovascular Epidemiology in Russian Federation|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        - informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:
      
NCT02299479|Adjusting Insulin Delivery to Activity|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 diabetes (as clinically diagnosed by outpatient endocrinologist).

          -  Treated with insulin pump therapy for greater than or equal 6 months

          -  HbA1C of <8.5% in the previous 3 months

          -  Families will need to have access to Wi-Fi and a compatible smartphone in order for
             the data from the activity monitor and other devices to be transmitted to the
             research team

        Exclusion Criteria:

        • Current oral steroid use or other medication known to affect insulin action at
        investigator's discretion.

        ***Note: currently only enrolling patients followed at Boston Children's Hospital
      
NCT02287532|Evaluation of the DIABEO System in Poorly Controlled DM1 or DM2 Patients Treated With a Basal-bolus Insulin Regimen|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 1 or type 2 diabetic patients

          -  Performing auto-glycaemic control (at least 2 glycemias a day)

          -  Treated with insulin by a basal-bolus regimen for at least 1 year and using the same
             method of administration for at least 3 months (insulin pen or pump)

          -  Who have an Apple® or Androïde® Smartphone compatible, or intend to acquire one
             before their participation in the study

          -  Whose HbA1c dating of less 1 month and more than 3 months is ≥ 8%

          -  Who are able to understand and follow the study protocol

          -  Who have given their signed consent to take part in the study

          -  Subject affiliated to the French National Health Insurance funds or benefiting from
             such insurance

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Age < 18 years old

          -  Patients who have used the DIABEO system within 6 months before inclusion

          -  Participation in a clinical study within 6 months, except for the Meos (or télédiab
             3) study after a participation period of 6 months

          -  Patients who are pregnant or who wish to become pregnant during the study.

          -  Patients treated with human insulin A patient pre-screening register will be set up
             in each centre to establish the reasons for DM1/DM2 patients treated with a
             basal-bolus insulin regimen who are not taking part in the study.
      
NCT02266823|Diabetes CKD Lifestyle Technology Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  In order to be eligible for the study, the individual must be 40 years of age or
             older; have a DRG Code of T2DM, GFR of 15-89 ml/min/1.73m2 and a BMI >30 kg/m2. The
             participant's physician of record will have verified that his/her patient can safely
             participant in an intervention study that involves weight loss and a goal of 150
             minutes/week of moderate physical activity (comparable to brisk walking).

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Those with the following characteristics will be excluded by the investigators:

               1. unable or unwilling to provide informed consent; (2) unable to participate
                  meaningfully in an intervention that involves group sessions (e.g., due to
                  uncorrected hearing impairment, non-English-speaking); (3) unable to read or
                  otherwise use an iPad to monitor dietary intake, physical activity, and weight
                  (e.g., blind, illiterate); (4) unwilling to accept randomization assignment; (5)
                  pregnant, or plans to become pregnant in the next 12 months, less than 3 months
                  postpartum, or nursing or within 6 weeks of having completed nursing; (6) weight
                  loss of > 10% in the past 6 months except for postpartum weight loss; and (7)
                  individuals who are institutionalized (e.g., in a nursing home or personal care
                  facility, or those who are incarcerated and have no control over their diet).

        will exclude from the study those with underlying diseases which would increase the risk
        of participating in an intervention involving caloric restriction and physical activity.
        Such individuals would include those requiring treatment for cancer, exclusive of skin
        cancer other than melanoma, in the past 2 years; infectious diseases including untreated
        AIDS and active tuberculosis; uncontrolled hypertension of >190 mmHg SBP or >105 mmHg DBP
        despite treatment; stroke or TIA in the past 6 months; conditions requiring the use of
        home oxygen; or other chronic disease or condition likely to limit life span to < 1 year.
        A recent Institute of Medicine report suggests that reducing dietary sodium below 1,840
        mg/day in those with mid- to late-stage heart failure may increase adverse events or
        mortality. Thus investigators will exclude those with heart failure.

        Because of the dietary requirements of a pregnant woman, and the nature of weight loss and
        gain with pregnancy, inclusion of pregnant women in the study would confound the study
        results. Those who become pregnant during the study will be withdrawn from the study.
      
NCT02233140|Effectiveness of Manual Manipulation With EPAT on Ankle Dorsiflexion and Dynamic Plantar Pressure|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men and women between the ages of 21 to 65, inclusive

          -  Diabetes, either type 1 or 2

          -  Ankle equinus (< 0º passive ankle dorsiflexion with knee extended)

          -  Forefoot plantar hyperkeratosis (callus)

          -  Able to walk independently without the use of walking aids (cane, crutches, or
             walker)

          -  Able to understand the information in the informed consent form and willing and able
             to comply with study-related procedures

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Previous history of ankle-foot surgery or amputation

          -  no active lower extremity skin ulcers

          -  Peripheral vascular disease (non-palpable pedal pulses or ankle brachial index <0.8)

          -  Not willing or able to make required visits

          -  Nursing or pregnant

          -  Not willing or able to follow procedures specified by protocol and/or instructions of
             the study personnel, including discontinuation of icing, NSAIDs and natural
             anti-inflammatory agents (such as Arnica)
      
NCT02230891|Biomarker Guided Therapies in Stage A/B Heart Failure|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        Only Veterans are eligible to participate. Other inclusion criteria include

          -  Age greater than 40 years

          -  One of the following in order to establish Stage A HF a. Hypertension b. Diabetes
             mellitus (controlled: defined as hemoglobin A1c less than 9%) c. Obesity (defined as
             BMI greater than 30 kg/m2) d. Metabolic syndrome (using the National Cholesterol
             Education Panel definition) e. Left ventricular hypertrophy (by ECG) f. Coronary or
             cerebrovascular arterial disease

          -  Troponin T measured by the high sensitivity assay of greater than 5ng/L

          -  Systolic BP 120-155 mmHg at primary care provider (PCP) visit and prerandomization
             visit (i.e., 2 separate confirmations of the same). If there is discordance between
             the PCP visit and pre-randomization the investigators will bring patient back to
             recheck his BP and use that as the tie breaker. Not orthostatic with measurements
             (defined as a fall in systolic BP greater than 20 mmHg when subjects assume an
             upright position). If diabetic the systolic blood pressure should be 125-140 mmHg

          -  Estimated 10-yr HF risk (based on Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities [ARIC] HF Lab
             model) greater than 5%

          -  Provides informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

        The exclusion criteria include

          -  Atrial fibrillation

          -  History of chest/ neck radiation

          -  High-risk chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (GOLD classification 3-4 with
             greater than equal to 2 COPD exacerbations in the last 12 months)

          -  Known allergy to carvedilol or spironolactone

          -  Renal insufficiency with estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) less than 60
             ml/min

          -  Serum potassium greater than 5 meq/L

          -  Current use of carvedilol, spironolactone, any other beta-blockers or aldosterone
             antagonists

          -  Signs of clinical HF on initial examination (pulmonary rales/crackles, elevated
             jugular venous pulse with S3/S4 on auscultation)

          -  Left ventricular ejection fraction <50% by echo

          -  Moderate or greater valve stenosis or regurgitation

          -  Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy

          -  Exposure to known cardiotoxic chemotherapy

          -  Poor echo image quality

          -  Right ventricular dysfunction more than mild

          -  Any valvular dysfunction that is more than mild

          -  Any life-threatening disease expected to result in death within the next 2 years

          -  Active severe liver disease (evaluated at Visit 1): cirrhosis, active hepatitis,
             aspartate transaminase (ALT) or alanine transaminase (AST) greater than 3 x ULN, or
             biliary obstruction with hyperbilirubinemia (total bilirubin greater than 2 x ULN).

          -  Participation in another clinical trial involving an investigational agent within 90
             days prior to randomization

          -  Any condition or therapy which, in the opinion of the investigator, might pose a risk
             to the patient or make participation in the study not in the patient s best interest

          -  Drug or alcohol abuse within the past 6 months, and unable/unwilling to abstain from
             drug abuse and excessive alcohol consumption during the study. Excessive alcohol
             consumption is on average greater than 2 units of alcohol per day. A unit of alcohol
             is defined as a 12-ounce (350 mL) beer, 5-ounce (150 mL) wine, or 1.5-ounce (45 mL)
             of 80 ]proof alcohol for drinks.

          -  Mental/psychological impairment or any other reason to expect patient difficulty in
             complying with the requirements of the study.

          -  Any immunosuppressed condition where intercurrent illnesses may affect interpretation
             of study results

          -  Pregnant women or any woman planning a pregnancy during the study period

          -  Not meeting any of the inclusion criteria
      
NCT02225457|Study of the Mechanisms of Metabolic Adaptations to Overfeeding|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  normal healthy male and female volunteer

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetes mellitus

          -  High blood pressure

          -  Liver disease

          -  Kidney disease
      
NCT02219750|Comparison of Premixed Insulin With Basal-plus Insulin in Type 2 Diabetes Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Men and women with type 2 diabetes.(World Health Organization classification) > 20
             years of age.

          -  Patients who have received stable doses of any OADs for at least 12 weeks prior to
             the screening visit.

          -  treatment with basal insulin plus OADs >3 months with suboptimal glycemic control
             (HbA1c >7%)

          -  FBG <130 mg/dl or FBG ≥130 mg/dl, but daily insulin dose >0.7U/kg or had history of
             nocturnal hypoglycemia

          -  Patients who are willing and able to cooperate with study and give signed informed
             consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Patients with type 1 diabetes.

          -  History of severe hypoglycemia or hypoglycemia unawareness within prior 6 months.

          -  Patients who had received any investigational insulin for more than 3 months or who
             have received investigational insulin treatment within 4 weeks prior to screening
             visit.

          -  Patients hypersensitive with insulin analog or its excipients.

          -  Patients who are currently pregnant/lactating, or who are preparing for pregnancy or
             lactation.

          -  Renal dialysis patients, patients with severe liver disease or congestive heart
             failure

          -  BMI >40kg/m2

          -  Excessive insulin resistance (total daily insulin dose>2.0unit/kg)
      
NCT02172092|Fluid Kinetics in Patients With Diabetic Ketoacidosis|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  diabetic ketoacidosis needing icu care, conscious patient, signed informed consent.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  unconscious patient
      
NCT02166372|Taiwan Diabesity Study:Comparison With Mild Obese T2DM Patients Who Under Metabolic Surgery|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diabetic Mellitus Type 2 medically controlled at Diabetes Center for at least six
             months

          -  BMI over 25

          -  age between 20 and 67

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosed with cancer within past five years

          -  HIV positive

          -  Active TB patients

          -  CV events in past six months

          -  serum cretinine over 2.0 mg/dl

          -  C-peptide bellow 1.0 ng/ml in past three months

          -  Diabetic retinopathy; vision bellow 0.1

          -  Cushing's syndrome

          -  History of organ transplant

          -  History of bariatric surgery

          -  History of alcohol or drug dependency in past five years

          -  Psychological problems likely to interfere with adherence to protocol
      
NCT02147522|A Helping Hand Among Low-Income Patients|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  age >18 years, have a phone, meet PHQ-9 score of 10 or more, and have concurrent
             diabetes, CHD, or HF.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  current suicidal ideation,inability to speak either English or Spanish fluently, a
             score of 2 or greater on the CAGE 4M alcohol assessment,recent use of lithium or
             antipsychotic medication, and cognitive impairment precluding informed consent.
      
NCT02137070|The WISE (Weightloss Intervention Surgical Effects) Brain Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Body Mass Index >35

          -  Diabetes or no diabetes

          -  Compatible with MRI Scanning

          -  Willing to give a small blood sample on 3 occasions

          -  Capable of providing informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Prior neurological disorder

          -  Mini Mental Status Exam score

          -  Major psychiatric disturbance (schizophrenia, chronic intractable depression,

          -  Coronary revascularization, peripheral vascular disease

          -  Severe cardio vascular disease history

          -  Unstable medical conditions (cancer)
      
NCT02118714|Atrasentan Spermatogenesis and Testicular Function|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Males 30 to 75 years of age

          -  Type 1 or 2 diabetes and receiving treatment with at least one anti-hyperglycemic
             medication and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi)/angiotensin receptor
             blockers (ARB) (renin-angiotensin system [RAS] inhibitor)

          -  Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) equal to or greater than 35 mL/min with
             the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) Formula and Urine
             Albumin-to-Creatinine Ratio (UACR) equal to or greater than 30 and less than 5,000
             mg/g creatinine.

          -  Able to provide a semen specimen at the required intervals.

          -  Baseline sperm concentration equal to or greater than 30 million per mL.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Treatment with hormone suppressive agents or cancer chemotherapy within the past 6
             months or planned during the study.

          -  History of severe peripheral edema or facial edema unrelated to trauma or history of
             myxedema in the prior 4 weeks prior to screening.

          -  History of pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary fibrosis or any lung disease requiring
             oxygen therapy.

          -  Documented diagnosis of heart failure, previous hospitalization for heart failure or
             current or constellation of symptoms (dyspnea on exertion, pedal edema, orthopnea,
             paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea) felt to be compatible with heart failure, that was not
             explained by other causes, and for which there was a change in medication or other
             management directed at heart failure.

          -  Currently receiving or has received hormone replacement therapy within 6 months prior
             to screening.
      
NCT02095418|Comparison of New-onset Diabetes After Transplantation Between Two Steroid Withdrawal Group With CellCept|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  1.Male or female patients between 20-70 years 2.De novo patients 3.Recipients from
             living or cadaveric donors 4.Single organ recipient (liver only) 5.White Blood
             Cell(WBC) ≥ 3,000uL 6.Women of childbearing potential had to have a negative serum or
             urine pregnancy test within 1 week prior to beginning study treatment. Effective
             contraception has to be used before beginning therapy, during therapy and for 6 weeks
             following discontinuation of therapy 7.Patients co-operative and able to complete all
             the assessment procedures. 8.Patients provided written informed consent

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Patients who receive immunosuppressive therapy (except steroid treatment) within the
             preceding 28 days.

          2. Incompatible A,B, and O blood group system.

          3. Active infection

          4. Patients whose laboratory results reveal severe anaemia (as defined by a haemoglobin
             value < 9 g/dL for adults receiving erythropoietin, 6.5 g/dL for adults not receiving
             erythropoietin, leukopenia (as defined by a white blood cell [WBC] value of
             <1500/mm3) or thrombocytopenia (as defined by a platelet count of <30,000/mm3).

          5. Mandatory intake of prohibited drugs or if it is probable that the patient would
             require treatment with such drugs after transplant

          6. Patient is allergic or intolerant to excipients, steroids, Mycophenolate
             mofetil(MMF), tacrolimus or basiliximab.

          7. Patients with any form of substance abuse, psychiatric disorder or condition, which,
             in the opinion of the investigator, may invalidate communication with the
             investigator or with study procedures.

          8. The receipt of a new investigational drug within the previous 3 months

          9. Pregnant or lactating females.

         10. Women of child-bearing potential not willing to use a reliable form of contraception.

         11. Previous organ transplantation

         12. Patients who have diabetes mellitus prior to transplantation

         13. Patients who have cancer other than liver cancer

         14. Patients who have HGPRT(hypoxanthine quinine phosphoribosyl transferase) deficiency,
             Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, Kelly-Seegmiller syndrome
      
NCT02082132|MODY in Young-onset Diabetes in Different Ethnicities|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Diagnosed with diabetes on the basis of fasting glucose and/or oral glucose tolerance
             test and/or HbA1c as per WHO criteria.

          -  Diagnosed with diabetes between 6 months and 30 years of age.

          -  South Asian ancestry- defined as self-reported ancestry and at least 2 grandparents
             from the Indian Subcontinent (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh or Sri Lanka).

          -  European ancestry - defined as self-reported ancestry and at least 2 grandparents
             from within Europe.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  An established secondary cause of diabetes exists (for example recurrent
             pancreatitis, pancreatectomy, new onset diabetes after transplantation, Cushing's
             syndrome, acromegaly, steroid induced).

          -  Enrolled in another study.

          -  Have active malignancy or under investigation for malignancy.
      
NCT02069197|Ketogenic Diet Treatment of Obesity With Co-morbid Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and/or Obstructive Sleep Apnea|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  age 18-70

          -  ability and willingness to signed informed consent form

          -  BMI more than 30kg/m2, with type 2 DM and/or OSA

          -  For diabetic participants, stable hypoglycemic medications for at least 2 months

          -  For participants with OSA, previously documented polysomnogram with apnea/hypopnea
             index (AHI)>15/h.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  BMI change of +/- 3.0 kg/m2 of baseline BMI within past 12 months.

          -  History of bariatric surgery ≤ 3 years prior to enrollment.

          -  Any systemic illness or unstable medical condition that might pose additional risk,
             including: cardiac, unstable metabolic or endocrine disturbances, renal or liver
             disease, past history of renal calculi, hyperuricemia, hypercalcemia, mitochondrial
             disease, known disorder of fatty acid metabolism, porphyria, and active systemic
             cancer.

          -  History of uncontrolled hyperlipidemia

          -  For participants with DM, change in the dose or type of hypoglycemic treatment within
             2 months prior to enrollment.

          -  Psychosis within six months of enrollment, evidenced by treatment with anti-psychotic
             medications with recent medication initiation or dose increase.

          -  Active drug or alcohol dependence or any other factors that, in the opinion of the
             site investigators would interfere with adherence to study requirements;

          -  History of hyperthyroidism

          -  History of glaucoma

          -  History of cerebrovascular disease or unstable heart disease within 6 months of
             enrollment

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Use of any investigational drugs within 3 months of enrollment.

          -  Inability or unwillingness of subject to give written informed consent.
      
NCT02043405|Weight Loss and/or Exercise Training to Discover Muscle Lipids Related to Insulin Sensitivity|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Obese men and women with pre-diabetes will be recruited for this study with ages
             ranging from 30-60 years old. Individuals with impaired fasting glucose (IFG),
             impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and a combination of the two (IFG/IGT) will
             recruited and verified using oral glucose tolerance testing at initial screening. All
             subjects will be obese (BMI 30-40 kg/m2) and sedentary (<2 hours/week of planned
             physical activity). Impaired fasting glucose is defined as fasting glucose between
             100-125mg/dl, with post-prandial glucose (<140 mg/dl 2 hrs after 75g OGTT). Impaired
             glucose tolerance is defined as normal fasting glucose <100mg/dl, with post-prandial
             glucose (>140 mg/dl 2 hrs after 75g OGTT). Subjects with IFG/IGT will have both
             impaired fasting glucose (100-125mg/dl), and impaired glucose tolerance (>140 mg/dl 2
             hrs after 75g OGTT) (49). To increase generalizability, and because each subject
             serves as their own control, women will be enrolled regardless of menopausal status,
             use of hormone replacement therapy and oral contraceptives.

        Exclusion Criteria:

        Regular exercise more than 2 hours/week, medications that could affect glucose, lipid
        metabolism, thyroid disease, a history of lung disease, pregnancy, active cigarette
        smoking or exposure to second hand smoke and severe plasma lipid disorders.
      
NCT02036619|The Belgian Diabetes in Pregnancy Study: BEDIP-N Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Women between 18-45 years,

          -  singleton pregnancy

          -  between 6-13 weeks of pregnancy

          -  the delivery has to be planned in the hospital where the study is performed.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  < 18 years or > 45 year

          -  multiple pregnancy

          -  known diabetes or taking metformin

          -  chronic treatment with corticoids

          -  signs of a miscarriage

          -  Chronic medical condition: uncontrolled hypertension, severe heart disease, severe
             chronic liver disease, severe chronic kidney disease, chronic infection (such as HIV
             or hepatitis)

          -  bariatric surgery

          -  delivery is planned in another center than the screening

          -  a normal follow up and treatment during pregnancy will not be possible (due to
             incompliance, psychiatric problems, severe communication problems…)

          -  participating in another study with any medication or intervention ( including life
             style intervention) up to 90 days before the start of the study
      
NCT01994811|Eastern Caribbean Health Outcomes Research Network (ECHORN)|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age

          -  English or Spanish language speaking

          -  Resident of island at least 10 years

          -  Able to provide informed consent

          -  Non-institutionalized at the time of data collection

          -  Stable contact/residential information

          -  No plans to relocate from island within the next 5 years

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Pregnant at time of recruitment
      
NCT01982019|Influence of Bariatric Surgery on Serum Levels of 26RFa|
        1. Patients :

               1. Inclusion Criteria:

                    -  Obese patients (with or without type 2 diabetes) with a planned sleeve
                       gastrectomy

               2. Exclusion Criteria:

                    -  HbA1c >11 %.

          2. Healthy volunteers :

               1. Inclusion Criteria:

                    -  20 ≤ BMI ≤ 25 kg/m²,

                    -  with no treatment that may influence the glycemic control,

                    -  normal electrocardiogram,

                    -  no disturbance of the following blood tests: CBC, serum electrolytes,
                       glucose,

                    -  negative serology of HIV, hepatitis B and C,

                    -  does not participate at another clinical trial in the last 3 months

               2. Exclusion Criteria:

                    -  severe medical or surgical history, particularly endocrine or cardiac,

                    -  oedema syndrome,

                    -  hypertension.
      
NCT01968876|Is a Smartphone Application Effective as an Oral Medication Adherence Aid|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Males and females at least 18 years of age

          -  Provide informed consent

          -  Prescribed an oral medication indicated for hypertension, diabetes, or dyslipidemia
             during 12 weeks pre-enrollment

          -  Own a smartphone (Android or iOS) with unlimited text messaging, email access, and
             app store access

          -  Oral confirmation that the subject has not previously used a medication adherence app

          -  Able to consult with a pharmacy or medical student during the recruitment process for
             purposes of consent, data collection, and/or medication reconciliation, and/or
             MyMedSchedule registration

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Severely impaired vision

          -  Reside in a nursing home

          -  Non-ambulatory/bedridden

          -  Not fluent in English
      
NCT01966978|The Effect of Simple Basal Insulin Titration, Metformin Plus Liraglutide for Type 2 Diabetes With Very Elevated HbA1c - The SIMPLE Study|
        Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Clinical diagnosis of type 2 diabetes with confirmed HbA1c level >10% at time of
        enrollment, regardless of prior or current treatment regimens, or time since diagnosis.

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. Age <18 as the feasibility and safety of this treatment regimen should be first
             established in the adult population; if successful, a subsequent pediatric study will
             be proposed;

          2. Type 1 diabetes as purposefully withholding meal-time insulin is contraindicated;

          3. Clinical state requiring inpatient admission/treatment;

          4. Contraindication or strong cautions to any of the study medications:

               1. Creatinine above 1.4 mg/dl for women and 1.5 mg/dl for men (per metformin label)

               2. History of lactic acidosis (per metformin label)

               3. Advanced hepatic or cardiac disease (per metformin label)

               4. Age >80 years (per metformin label)

               5. Chronic alcohol use (>14 drinks/week)

               6. History of pancreatitis (per liraglutide label)

               7. Personal or family history of medullary thyroid cancer or MEN syndrome (per
                  liraglutide label)

               8. Pregnancy and lactation (per liraglutide label)

          5. Any serious or unstable medical condition as it would interfere with treatment
             assignment as well as outcome measurement;

          6. Any scheduled elective procedures/surgeries;

          7. Active infections, including osteomyelitis;

          8. Not willing to participate, unable to keep projected appointments, unwillingness to
             receive injectable treatment; unwillingness to perform 7-point glucose profiles over
             2 consecutive days the weeks prior to Randomization (visit 1)and the week prior to
             visit 6

          9. Non English speaking.
      
NCT01890226|A Mobile Personal Health Record for Behavioral Health Homes|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  one or more of the following conditions: hyperlipidemia, hypertension, diabetes

          -  able to give consent

          -  patient in the behavioral health home

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Unable to give consent
      
NCT01888315|Influence of Catheter-based Renal Denervation in Diseases With Increased Sympathetic Activity|
        Inclusion Criteria

          1. Individual is 18 years of age.

          2. Individual agrees to have all procedures performed, and is competent and willing to
             provide written, informed consent to participate in the registry.

          3. Patient scheduled for renal sympathetic denervation using market-released device.

        Exclusion Criteria

          1. In the eyes of the treating physician, the renal artery anatomy would interfere with
             safe cannulation of the renal artery or meets local standards for surgical repair.

          2. Individual has any serious medical condition, which in the opinion of the treating
             physician may adversely affect the safety and/or effectiveness of the participant
             (i.e., patients with clinically significant peripheral vascular disease, abdominal
             aortic aneurysm, bleeding disorders such as thrombocytopenia, hemophilia, significant
             anemia, etc.).
      
NCT01868230|Lifestyle Intervention in Overweight and Obese Pregnant Hispanic Women|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Hispanic women

          -  Overweight or obese before pregnancy (BMI >25 kg/m2)

          -  16-45 years old

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  history of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, or chronic renal disease

          -  contraindications to participation in moderate physical activity or to a
             low-fat/high-fiber diet (e.g., Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis)

          -  inability to read English or Spanish at a 6th grade level

          -  >20 wks gestation

          -  current medications which adversely influence glucose tolerance

          -  not planning to continue to term or deliver at the study site

          -  pregnant with twins or triplets

          -  preterm birth (<34 wks), a miscarriage, or a still birth after enrollment or a
             stillbirth

          -  women who become pregnant again in the year following delivery will be censored at
             the time of their positive pregnancy test
      
NCT01864603|Sustainable East Africa Research in Community Health|
        Community Level Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Non-adjacent geopolitical units in south-western and eastern Uganda and western
             Kenya.

          -  Most recent census population between 9,000 and 11,000 individuals.

          -  Served by an ART providing health center.

          -  Community leader commitment for study participation and implementation.

          -  Accessibility to health center via a maintained transportation route.

          -  Community location with sufficient distance from other potential study communities to
             limit contamination of intervention or control conditions (buffer zone)

        Individual Level Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Residency of individual in community, defined as present in household for at least 6
             months of the calendar year.

        Community Level Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Presence of ongoing community-based ART intervention strategies that provide
             treatment outside of the current in-country treatment guidelines.

          -  An urban setting defined as a city with a population of 100,000 or more inhabitants.

          -  Absence of a health center able to provide ART.
      
NCT01816997|The Statins on Glucose Homeostasis in Subjects With Impaired Fasting Glucose|
        Inclusion Criteria:

          1. Age 35-70 years old

          2. Fasting blood glucose 100-125 mg/dL

        Exclusion Criteria:

          1. A1C >7.0%

          2. 2hr glucose during OGTT >200 mg/dL

          3. Total cholesterol >280 mg/dL

          4. Previous diabetic history, coronary artery disease

          5. Allergy to rosuvastatin or parvastatin

          6. Baseline ALT more than 3 times UNL

          7. Serum Cr > 2.0 mg/dL

          8. Pregnancy, breast feeding or plan to be pregnant woman.
      
NCT01809288|Identifying Risk for Diabetes and Heart Disease in Women|
        -  INCLUSION CRITERIA FOR PRIMARY PROTOCOL:

          -  African, African-American and White Women

          -  Healthy Volunteers

          -  Age between 25 and 65 years

          -  BMI between 20 and 45 kg/m(2)

          -  Federal Employees-Intramural or Extramural or Contractor

        INCLUSION CRITERIA FOR NESTED INPATIENT STUDY

        Same as primary outpatient protocol except:

          -  Age restricted to 25 to 50 years

          -  BMI restricted to 25 and 45 kg/m2

          -  Premenopausal status

        EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

          -  Pregnancy

          -  Medications or Medical Conditions which affect parameters under investigation
      
